MANY EMPTY SEATS in ARH Auditorium provide mute testimony to the sharply declin-
ing interest in the Great Faculty Requirements Debate. Next Monday’s installment should
feature a vote on a four-credit Humanities requirement and/or on the Jones Proposal for
a Freshman Tutorial Program.

line searleli

n HUMAN,

ISI“)
?
g m
,
l

11M lOWENSE 6*

VOL. LXXIX NO. 2

October 23, 1970

(Photo by Marty Sachs)

l‘ .
=
.1
Eu
Z
5

Grinnell, Iowa 5011 2

Crisis Center To Aid Counseling

It’s 3 a.m. and you‘re lonely.
Who do you go to? You might
risk your roommate’s wrath
and try to raise him, orprowl
around your hallsearching for
some sound, or walk up the
railroad tracks and talk to
Orion, but in a month you'll
have another option. "TheRes
volving Door", Grinnell's
“on, crisis oriented crisis
center should be in operation.

The idea for such a center
grew out of last year's drug
symposium and from a geners
a1 feeling of need. Out of 90
student applicants, 50 were
selected to go through a three
to four week training period
this fall. Jim Tederman, Pru—
dence Milite, Ed Leong, Don
Bouwens, Bill Abdallah, Rose-
mary Ash, Rene MohrandDes
nnis Haas are leading the vol-

unteers in small group ses-
sions, emphasizing drug and
emotional counseling. Dr. Da-

' niels, from thePoweshiek COs
’unty Mental Health Clinic is

adding anather dimension to
the training. The trainingpror
cess will be continuous, with
representatives coming from
contact houses in Des Moines
and Cedar Rapids to give bet
ter training in the psycholo»
gical aspects of talkingpeople
down.

Those involved with the cen-
ter want to eliminate the word
"crisis” from people’s atti-
tudes toward it. They secitas
a coordination ofexisting cou-
nseling services, not as us
urping the powers of any. It
utilizes the ResidentAdvisers
more fully on a semisprofess
sional basis, and makes the

Students Fight Filth

Community Day will be 9:30
a.m. to 4:00 p.m. The aims of
this day include aiding those
individuals Wlioare innecdand
revitalizing town-college re-
lations.

The main jobs to beaccomp-
lished on Saturday consist of
painting and repairing four
houses, clearing weeds, sh-
rubs, and beer cans from two
lots, and cleaning up road-
sides.

/\nyonc who is interested in
working tomorrow should
dress in work clothes and be
at the Burling parking lot by
9:30 a.m. to receive his as-
signment and equipinent./\d-
ditlonal groups will be picked
up at the same place at 11:00
a.m. and 1:01) p.m. If you sub
mitted your SAGA meal num-
ber to the SGA Office by Th»
ursday a picnic lunch will be
delivered to you on the job.
If you forgot to notify the SGA
Office, some kind soul will

undoubtably share his sand-
wich with you. Therefore, ev-
eryone come, whether you 51’
gned up or net. All hands are
welcome.

Response sofarhas been faV’
orable from college and high
school students, local service
clubs, and individual commu-
nity members. While Anne
Walters is heading the Com-
munity Day campaign on cam-
pus, Ferne Norris, president
of the Community Planning
Council, and the Rev. Michael
lan Creti, Chairman of the
CPC’s Committee on Envir-
onment andpastoratSt. Paul’s
Episcopal Church, are lead
ing the campaign in the come
munity.

After the work is completed
all participants are inVited to
a party at the Veteran's Me-
morial Center. Foodand cider
will be provided by the United
Church women and Entertaln'
ment will consist of musicfor
guitars, banjos, and fiddles.

student volunteers moreaw-
are of campus problems. The
telephone service givesapers
son seeking help the opportu-

(Continued to page 6)

Faculty Debate Bogs;
Profs Exchange Words

by John Pepper
and Tim Porges

Debate continued through the

last two faculty meetings on
proposals for academic res
form. In successive weekly
meetings, the faculty has vots
ed down first the Clotfelter
Proposal, then the Noble-Err
ickson Proposal, and most
recently the first ofa series
of “amended versions" of the
Clotfelter Proposal.

The controversial Clotfelter
proposal to eliminate course
requirements for graduation
was narrowly defeated two
weeks ago.

The NoblerErickson scheme
for a requirement based dn
divisional distribution neces-
sary for graduation failed lar-
gely on the strength of Miss
Noble's reversal of her pres
vious position on theproposol.
She argued that the proposal,
if implemented under the cur-
rent curriculum, would favor
students in the physical sci-
ences over those in the hums
anities and the social scien-
ces. This is due to the much
greater number of courses of
fered without prerequisites in
the latter divisions as com-
pared tothephysicalsciences,
a ratio of about 3: .

The first order of business
in the faculty's October 19
meeting was the consideration
of the proposal offered for
consideration on October 12
by Alan Jones (history. The
proposal was: (“Each student
is required to complete the
Freshman Tutorial Frogs
ram.") Appeiided to this was
a possible Catalogue descrips
tion of the proposed program,
by way of clarification:

”The freshman tutorial prO'
gram is a creditsfail nonscls
assroom learning experience

to be completed in the first
semester of the freshman
year. Each student will work
closely with his faculty tutor
in preparing a series of es,
says during the semestér,and
the aim of the program is to
introduce entering students
into a new learning experience
emphasizing lndependent stun
dy and writing skills. Satiss
factory completion of the pro-
gram will carry four credits.
The tutor Will also act as the
student’s undorclass acades
mic adviser."

This proposal (which shares
much with the Kintner posi-
tion paper in emphasizing a
greatly strengthened advise
ing program as a prerequi-
site to curricular reform)was
strongly attacked by Morris
Parslow of the French De—
partment who imputed to the
rationale vague and misleads
ing language which he pro-
ceeded to quote to the tune of
three or four carefully selecr
ted phrases.

Jones replied that he found
it hard to believe that,he had
actually said those things,and
doubted in fact that he had.
Investigation showed that he
indeed had not said them.
Jones then said he would pres
sume that none of Parsiow's
ether criticisms had any but
metaphorical substance.
Nevertheless, the proposal
was set aside, and the faculty
returned to consideration of
“modified Clolfeltet propo-
sals" which provide for spe-
cial requests by the humanis
ties division. Proposed were
(1) a "norrcquiremenis"cur-
riculum with a one semester
humanities requirement, and
(2) a “n0"requit‘ements" curs
riculuin with a two semester

(Continued to page 2)

Students Scoreln SAGA Battle

by Jon Stein

Quesrion: “whydoesn'tGrins
nell have many stray dogs and
cats?" Answer: "because we
have SAGA".

In what amounted to be the
biggest Studentspower demon-
stration of the year, over one
hundred students turned out to
voice complaints and suggesr
tions at a meeting attended by
the deans, the SGA president,
and the SAGA brass. No Virs
ginia, they didn't want to take
over the school or protest the
war; they wanted to eat good
food. As it turns out, this may
be the hortestissue ofthe year,
as the SAG/i brass appeared
thunderstruck at both the at-
tendance and the nature of the
complaints. Leadsoff batter
in the first inning, SAGA Jere
ry assured the students that
SAGA does not operate on a
high profit margin. The stue
dents then rapped out a single
by asking why guests are ch-
arged exorbitant rates for
meals. SAGA, not to be out-
donc, asked the Students to
realize that if everyone’s gu~
ests, or even everyone who
doesn't eat, all of a sudden
started coming to meals, the
board rates would go up. Her
Hum. The students then pops
ped a fly (that was dropped)
by asking why those who don't
want to eat SAGA food are
forced to pay for it. SAGA was
charged with an error for us-
ing their previous reply. The
Administration‘s left handed
(southpaw) receiver, Dean
Walker was sent in only to
throw a basesrloaded homer

when he tried to explain the
high overhead involved in the
running of two “feeding
halls.” The students, tasting
blood for once (after months
of overcooked roast beef),
proceeded to enumerate spe
cific sorespots. The keyplay-
ers were those who relied on
the high starch content ofSaga

i

food. The managers of "the
big starchmachine"after lea-
rning that starch does not build
strong bodies 12 Ways, tried
to win back the fans by pro»
mising to listen to suggest-
ions and reminded everyone
that "you can please some of
the people some of the time,
(Continued to page 6)

PEACE 7 Ralph Pomerenk, college business manager,
plays the role of peaccmaker between the SAG \ ad-
ministration and the students.(Photn by Marty Sachs)

 

