JON STEIN, ERIC JAl-EN and Oscar Rattenborgappear
determined in ther preparation for the loop meet.

Harriers Place Third At Coe
Eric John Takes Top Honors

Eric "the Quick" Jahn led
Grinnell’s not-so-jolly jog~
gers to an overall third place
finish in the Coe Invitational
at Cedar Rapids. Eric took
top long distance runner hon—
ors on the muddy course last
Friday. Grinnell finished bee
hind St. Ambrose and Dubuque
as the rest ofrhe team seemed
to be on a "downer” for the
meet. Grinnell was listed asa
very strong contender; but
with junior star Chuck “Short-
cut" McGrath ailing, the team
is losing a high finisher.

The way the members fin-
ished: Jahn lat, McGrath 6th.
Russell 11th. Frank 14th.
Mendenhall 19th, Oscar 24th,
Stein 26th.

To save their strength, they
have cancelled their skirmish

with Ripon this week. The real '

reason perhaps being that evr
erybody wants to go home and
Coach 0 could not get his son

HELP WANTED

Part time job opening for
a college student interest-
ed in management. Mustbe
willing to purchasea 35mm
camera oralready own one.
Reply to:
John J. Remsbecker
Post Office Box 754
Kirksvilie, Missouri
63501

Road Service

' leo's Standard

236-7160
SIXTH & WEST

SIXTH St WEST 236-7205

BATT EY’S TEXACO STATION

or any old broken down swim-
mers to run. What ever hap-
pened to do or die for "01’
Grinny"? Alas . Why not
Ric Mc Doodle?

- - Hermes

THE SCARLET AND BLACK

October 29, 1970

GriddersContinue To Roll, 22-21

The Big Red apparently likes
to play the close onesand give
everybody coronaries. Or
maybe the Pioneers like to
prove that they can win in the
clutch, that they can come up
with the Big Play whenever
they have to. Last week they
did it against nonrconference
foe Beloit (non~ conference be
cause, contrary to conferen—
ce rules, Beloit is playing fre
cshmen on the varsity foot-
ball squad this year due to a
lack of varsity bodies), by the
miniscule margin ofonepoint,
22-21.

It looked as though Grinnell
would blow this game apart
early, as Darling Bill Dicks
picked off a pass from Bel‘
oit's Jim Nitz on the fourth
play of the game. Shortly th-
ereafter, Gorgeous Gary Jo-
hnson found Mafia Jim Firolr
li in the endzone witha seven-
yard strike. When placer kick—
er Twinkle-toes Roy Lewis
missed the extra point, the
score was 6-0, Pioneers.Tw-
inkle-toes, in making right
his wrong, then put the kick-
off into the end zone, where
Beloit's receivers tried a
handroff and reverse. HowV

Pink Toy Falls Again

The Freshman Football team
has done it againi Capping a
perfect season, with an un‘
blemished Win Column, the
preps were defeated by Coe
in their season's finale, 404).
This was definitely a moral
victory after last week’s
fiasco of a 76-0 rout by the
Knox preps. An unblemished
win column was not all this
undaunted squad is the pos-
sessor of. It also is unble-
mished in their number of
points scored in one season,
0. A defensive record was set
also in that 149 points were
scored against them. This
breaks the record of 121
points,‘ set by the laSt 0-3
prep squad of 1966.

Deceivingly, there are some
good players on this team.
Especially the linemen, who
will add greatly to nextyear's
team, according to Coach B07
were. All in all, this team

Phone 236-3197

showed how the game is real-
ly supposed to be played, just
for fun. Losing is not as
much fun as winning though.

ELI...

Step up to

JD’S RESTAURANT
922- 1/2 Main
Moanat. s to 10pm.
Sunday-Noon to 10 p.m.

BATES FLORIST

1012 Broad

 

,—

ever, the reverse was foiled
when the Big Red Machine's
kick~off team displayed rare
speed and tackled Beloit's re-
turn man in the end-zone for
a safety, to run the score to
870. Grinnell then took the
ensuing free kick and drove in
for another score, with the big
play being a 37-yard bomb
from G.G. to Henry “the F1-
ash" Corona in the end zone.
This time, the PAT was good
and the Homecoming Wreck-
ers were on top 15-0.

In the second quarter, Beloit
was driving, only to have Jef—
fie Dick pick off a Nitz pass
on the Grinnell eight and lum~
her all the way for a TD. Ber
loit, however, mme rightback
to score, Nitz throwing 29
yards to Dick Bartolomei for
the home team's second tour
chdown. The first half ended
with Grinnell up 22-15.

The fourth quarter was so-
mewhat wilder, as Grinnell's
offense failed to score any-
more, but Beloit’s did not.
With 6:21 left in the game,
their QB smashed over from
the one. Beloit then went for
all the marbles and a two
point conversion. This time,
however, they were stopped
short and the score remained
22*21, Grinnell. Grinnell then
killed four and a halfminutes,
but Beloit wasn’t through yet.
They mounted their finaldrive
of the day, and had victory in
their grasp, when the Pione
eer’s great defense came up
with their fourth Big Play:
Mafia Jim picked off a Nitz
pass in the end zone with 21
seconds left.

IT’S
All
TOGETHER

 

The Big Red Machine facesa
severe test this Saturday asil
meets the Redmen of Ripon.
Last year, Grinnell stungRip-
on with a relatively easy vic—
tory. It willne’erbe sosimple
this time around. However,
with the Pioneers' penchant
for pursuing the close ones,
and winning them, they won't
exactly be blown off the field,
either. Grinnell is fully mp“
able of making the Big Play.
The Pioneers should pull it

out, 20-18. "-Ro Speaks

THE

NEW

COLLEGE
BOOK

STORE

Xmog uinos
X new hoolts
3‘ posters
x records

Manager Tom McBee
invites your comments

ANG’S

 

 

 

Kick the SAGA hohit

Spend Friday night at the

lONGHORN

Complete meal for $1.45

5:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m.

live Entertainment

9:00 p.m. to 1:30 a.m.

Hamman’s Apparel
"FASHIONS FOR YOU"

 

