Faculty Approves limited Requirements Plan

by Greg Butcher

124 credits.
30748 credits
department.
No more than 92 credits in
one division.
A 4- credit freshman tutorial
course.
A 2.0 average (halfyour cou—
rses may be credit-fail).
The above are the only re
quirements thatwill greet next
year's incoming freshman
class as a result of the fac-
ulty’s longeawaited vote on
all—college requirements

in a major

Monday afternoon.

The final vote on the Walk
Jones- Clotfelter proposalwas
4B— 12

Iihﬂ ﬁlial‘lﬂli

El' HUMANL‘

with four abstentions

IS‘Ib
> Q g
a; S
”Mioweuse 0‘-

VOL. LXXIX NO. 4

and at least six others pre-
sent but not veting. (There
are 128 faculty members el—
igible to vote at meetings.)
The effect of the faculty’s
action on presently enrolled
students is not yet certain; but
moSt likely all students, with
the possible exception of sen~
iors, will be able to choose
which set ofrequirements they
would like to complete. In ad
dition, it is unlikely that any
courses next semester will
be required. (Yes, freshmen,
that probably means that you
won’t have to take second 55,
mester humanities.)

Andy Loewi, SGA president,
opened the meeting withan ef-
fective speech on the “grave

NOVEMBER 20, 1970

crisis" he perceives at Grin-
nell. He said that many freshr
men were considering leaving
because the education being
offered was not meaningful to
them. He quoted from a book
that tailed curriculum debate
by faculties a “great indoor
sport" with little meaning for
students. He urged the imme
diate adoption of the Wall-
Jones- Clotfelter proposal, but
with tutorials for the first
semester only. It was later
agreed that that issue could
be resolved at a later date.

Most ofMonday's debate cen-
tered around aproposalby
John R. Kleinschmidt, French
professor and former chair-
man of the faculty, toinstitute

GRINNE LL, IOWA 501 12

Trustees Hear Gripes, Suggestions

by Jim Alt

The Grinnell Board of Trus-
tees met on campus last Sat-
urday and Sunday to handle
routine business and to meet
with administrators, faculty,
and student leaders. Two of
their meetings were informal
gatherings open to the student
body at large.

Chairman Lawrence Keeney
convened the first closedmee-
ting in Burling viewing room
at 1:45 Saturday afternoon.
The executive council of the
faculty, executive cabinet of
SGA, President Leggett and
other administrators attended
in addition to about 20 trust-
ees.

After the invocation, a num-
ber of routine votes were ta—
ken. Appointments of Gardner

SGA PRESIDENT Andy

Dutton, George Drake, and
Theodore Lovejoy as trustees
were formalized, as was the
promotion of Velma Hiser
(communications) to full pro-
fessor and granting of tenure
to Louis Zirkle (art). The [r’
ustees also approved granting
an honorary degree to Nor~
man Borlaug, recent Nobel
peace prize recipient.

President Leggett next pre
sented a report on the
college's year to date. He
spoke of the overcrowding in
housing this year and noted
that the formula used to esti‘
mate enrollment had proven
inaccurate. He observed,
“The students were reason-
ably good-natured about it,"
but that “this is really more
than we canhandle consistent
ly without doing something

Loewt talks with trustee

Sunday afternoon at the end of a weekend of meetings.
Loewi later said he was "impressedwith the trustees'

willingness to talk with students."
(Photo by Marty Sachs)

fundamental about housing."

Leggett outlined the [Owl'r
gown movement and toldabout
Community Day. Speaking of
the first meeting, he commen-
ted, "It did clear the air ...”
He told the trustees that the
public newspaper account of
the meeting was less than fa-
vorable, saying that "It was
written in a rather sneering
tone . . . which was more or
less the point of the whole
article." He said that, on the
whole, community‘reaction to
the [OWl'rgOWn meetings was
good.

Leggett also mentioned the
class agents' return to cam~
pus in September, saying that
"In some ways itwas the most
successful meeting of alumni
I've ever seen on a campus."
He described Guru Steve's
recent visit to campus, and
said thatthe Women's Lib con-
ference lastweekendwas "ra-
ther spectacularlywell organs
ized."

The president touched onaih’
letics, and said that the foot
ball team "ms much more
successful than anyone thought
it would be." He noted that
average attendance was up to
1500.

Leggett spoke on Dean Wall’s
new book on Andrew Carne-
gie, calling its favorable re-
ception "in some senses the
most sensational news of the
fall." He read a review from
the current New Yorker and
commented that Wall may be
considered for certain liter-
ary awards. Wall was absent
from the meeting, watching
his son's last football game
at Cornell.

Leggett then remarked on the
academic reorganization plan
which he has been drafting. He
said that he feels the present
faculty organization is not as
efficient as it might be and
that the executive council is
overworked. He added, "I’ve
been thinking for the pastyear
that some way has to be found
to bring students into the de-
cision~ making process."

He is presently talking with
faculty and SGA executives
and plans to bring general fa-
culty members and students

(continued to page 2)

the tutorial program onanonr
required experimental basis
for one year before deciding
whether to require it for all
freshmen.

He mentioned two major un-
resolved questions about tut~
orials which prevented him
from supporting the program
without a trial period. They
were that he doesn't lmow
precisely what tutorials are,
and he doesn’t lcnow whether
they are feasible. Dean Jos-
eph Wall had said at an earls
ier meeting that 31 or 32 fac-
ulty members had indicated a
willingness to teach tutorials.
Kleinschmidt contended that
that was not a sufficient pool
from which to draw a staff of
about 35 tutors. (Wall later
replied that he anticlpatedthat
many more would volunteer
for the program.)

William C. Oelke, professor
of chemistry; Irwin Goldberg,
professor of sociology; Luth-
er E. Erickson, professor of
chemistry; and Gene G. Wub-
bels, assistant professor of
chemistry, all spoke in favor
of the Kleinschmidt proposal.

Alan R. Jones, professor of
history, arose to speak with
out havlng decided whether to
support the proposal. Event-

ually, he convinced himself to.

oppose it, saying, “All of hi-

igher education is full of une

answered questions; to wait
for answers is to donothing."

Beryl E. Clotfelter also con-
vinced him self during the cou-
rse of thediscussiontooppose
the proposal because he felt
that the proper information on
tutorials could not be gained
unless the program were re
quired. Robert D. Grey, as-
sistant professor of political
science, seconded Clotfelter's
sentiments; and Howard R.
Burkle, professor of philos—
ophy and religious studies.
also spoke against Kleinsch-
midt's proposal.

Robert F. Voertman,profese
sor of economics, Goldberg,
Joseph D. Danforth, profes-
sor of chemistry, and Greg-
ory Guroff, assistant profes-
sor of history, all spokeabout
the meaninglessness of the
debate; Danforth and Guroff
both promised to support ei-
ther the Kleinschmidt or the
Wall proposal if the faculty
would end the debate.

Goldberg summed up many
persons’ feelings when he
said, "It is obvious, regard- .
less of our vote, that the fac
ulty is reluctantly movingfor-
ward to something. They will
be voting to end the debate;
not because of any great com-
mitment to tutorials." Guroff
expressed the hope that the
faculty would get on to some
really important topic--such
as the curriculum as a whole
"upon ending these 11 weeks
of debate.

Black Cultural Weekend Starts
Today: "Time Of Communion”

by Lawrence Wright

Black Cultural Weekend is
dedicated to those lifestyles
that are unique to Black peer
ple. It is dedicated to the en
volvement of Black people in
Black people or, to say itphi‘
losophically, it is dedicated
to our ever greater selfrreae
lization of our situation in the
world today. We as a people
live in a time so mad that one
of the primary decisions on
which this country selectedits
President was that he keep us
in our place. Such dedication
to anti-humanistic policies
will some day doom this pla~
net to its destruction.

We Black people herebypro~
claim this weekend, Novem-
ber 20. 21, 22, to thoseforces
within us that expand our hu-
manistic tendencies and make
us the people we feel we need
to be in this insane world. It
is our primary purpose that
this not only be a time ofcom-
munion, but also a time ofre—
dedication to those principles
which will make our Grinnell
educations relevant to our own
natural environments. So in
essense we are dealing with
our own life styles and the
forces that mold them. And
beyond this we intend to deal
with the nature of structures
which can be erected to deal
with them from our own de-
fined perspective.

Our program will be started
Friday night at 8:00, with a
lecture in the South Lounge of
the Forum by Robert L. Wilv
liams. Williams is the Direcr
tor of the Black Studies Pro~
gram, at Washington Univer
sity. He is a professor ofpsy-
chology at this institution a]-
so. He is noted for his num-
erous contributions to psyche
ologiml literature. He has
dealt extensively with the El-
ack psychological mechanism
and is a proponent of a new
approach to the psychological
problems of Black people. He

will be on mmpus two days and
will participate in an inter-
racial workshop Saturday,
also to be held in the South

Lounge.

The next thing on the agenda
for Black cultural weekend is
an informal discussion, Bl-
ackeWhite workshops. This
situation will be structured
by our next speaker and Prof.
Williams. Leonard Perkins,
who is Dean of Student Ser-
vices at Purdue University,
has a degree in modern lan~
guages, but has practiml ex»
perience in dealingwithinters
racial conflict by his direc-
torship of the Purdue-based
upward bound program for
several years before his ape

(continued to page 3)

$175 Jump

In Tuition

A Grinnell education will
cost each student $175 more
next year, Dean Waldo Walk-
er has announced. The com-
prehen ’ve fee will be $3,700
for tuition, room and board,
compared to last year's
$3,525.

The increase includes $30 for
full board at SAGA, $10 in
room fees, and $135 in tuition
charges. The total will prob-
ably make Grinnell the third
most expensive of the 12 ACM
schools, although the increase
is less than the average $196
expected for ACM schools.
The tuition increase comes
in spite of a stringent auster:
ity program resulting in a
serious reduction of the cola
lege's operating budget for
next year. Expenditures per
student are about $5,200 this
year and are expected to be
$5,000 next year, reflecting
a drop in the overall budget
of at leaSt $200,000. Student ’
contributions to this total will
rise from 67% to 74% under

the new budget.

 

