one SCARLET AND BLACK

loewi. Says Students Turned Off

(Continued from page 1)

into the discussions. He said,
"I believe that by the mid—
winter meeting of the Trust
ees I will have something to
present that will represent a
consensus of faculty and stu-
dent feeling." He added that
he hopes to have the plan in
effect by September of 1971.

Because of Wall's absence,
Beryl Clotfelter postponedhis
report on the faculty’s prog-
ress in curricular reform.
Leggett, trying to be tactfulin
speaking of the faculty's re-
luctance to act, said, “This is
a year that the faculty is as-
sorting its right to think other-
wise . . . At this point, there
hasn't really been anaffirma-
tive vote taken on anything.”

Following Leggett's com—
ments, Dean Waldo Walker
spoke about financial and phye
sisal plant plans. He noted that
the college has beguna "slight
austerity program” and that
faculty, students, andadmin~
istrators have reacted “ad~
mirably." He hoped that this
year’s budget would come cl»
ose to the balance point.

Walker then outlined propo-
sed relocation of administra-
tive offices. Due to the libs
rary's expansion ofmaterials,
the Dean of Students’ offices
are to be moved to thepresent
Reception Center on SouthCa—
mpus. The remaining admin»
istrative offices will be in the
White House, presently used
for student housing. Because
of this change and because of
already cramped student hou-
sing, Walker said that he is
considering converting at
least two collegeeowned fac-
ulty houses to student use.

When a trustee asked what
reaction thefaculty mighthave
to this plan, Walker replied,
“The market for faculty me.
mbers is now a buyers' mar-
ket. We now don't have [OPIO’
vide these services to get ia‘
culty. You have to be humani-
uarian, but also a hard-eyed
analyst." He also said that it
is desirable to have adminis-
trative offices as close to
campus as possible, rather
than downtown.

Che trustee asked where a
new administrative building
would ideally be located, if
funds were available. Leggett,
in one of his better replies of
the weekend, said, "Ideally,
an administration building woe
uld be over on Barber Plaza
"on stiltsl"

Vice President for Business
Don Lambie presented a brief
review of the college's cash
resources. A discussion of
funderai'sing plans followed,
during which Leggett reveals
ed that “We've sent copies of
Wall's Carnegie book to the
Carnegie and Richard Mellon
Foundations, after ascertain-
ing that Mellon and Andrew
Carnegie were good friends."

A pointed discussion follow-
ed on increases over planned
building costs for the PE com-
plex and other buildings. The
conclusion reached was that
building costs have, indeed,
risen.

SGA President Andy Loewi,
who arrived late after driving

"THERE WAS no stopping us
'mlhless night-riders ol the
political righl' in splle of
Charles GoodeH's desperate
stand ’10 ‘keep lreedom [tom
being assassinated.’ (We'll
need a [ill/t- more time to rm.
ish up wilh the assassination,
but as a starter we” ma...
aged lo liquidate Ooodell's
"W'Om’" “dd m u l... may ml
to the nation's NAHONAl .s.
noubles and VIEW, mi... Dept.
comm") .. v, loo 2 as 5,...

. .W

back from an alumni meeting
in Chicago Friday, then spoke
at length. His comments in-
cluded:

"I think that we've witnessed
on this campus,andnationally,
a phenomenon that is difficult
to analyze . . . Students have
been turning inward. Few stu-
dents participate in elections
or campus activities (and) fe-
wer are getting into and
emics."

Loewi postulated that such
student reactions are due in
part to the national mood, but
that on Grinnell campus many
changes could be made to re-
involve students. He said that
students coming from progre-
ssive high schools are placed
in Grinnell's highly tradition-
al programs and "are quickly
turned of ."

Speaking of the faculty's work
on curricular revision, Loewi
said, “Last week, a very in-
novative proposal (first sem-
ester freshman tutorials) was
sort of disastrously undermie
ned . . . Frankly, the faculty
has been slow in dealing with
the problem and hasn‘t been
aware of the crisis in the stu»
dent body." later in the mee~
ting, Clotfelter countered this
statement, telling the Board,
“It hasn't been as entirely
one-sided as Andy has made
it sound . . . A lot of faculty
are in favor of tutorials."

‘ Loewi also mentioned pr’og-
ress made towardstudentpar-
ticipation in decision making
in some spheres. He added,
"But in the academic sphere
we really haven't gotten to
first base." He said that he
was “initially quite impress
sed” with Leggett’s academic
reorganization suggestions,
but cautioned that any changes
'0 improvements will not Be
immediate.

Board members then quest»
ioned Loewi, Bill Thomas,
Greg Vranicar, and Mary Br-
ooner. Most of their questions
centered around tutorials, re—
quirements, student evalua-
tion of teachers, group inde-
pendents, and composition of
the faculty.

The afternoon meeting fine
ished with reports by Chris
Nelson and Mary G. Jones on
alumni activities, and by Bill
Deminoff on internal and exe
ternal college communica-
tions and relations.

Saturday evening

Saturday evening at 8the Tre
ustees met informally with
students in Younkers Lounge.
At 8:45 Loewi caught every
one's attention, starting "We
have a list of nonenegotiable
demands . . ." After the Lau<
ghter died down, board mem-

bership and fundrraisingwere
discussed by the group of tr-
ustees and about 50 students.

One student asked just what
the Board's role is. A trustee
replied, "Picking the Presi-
dent is maybe the most im,
portant thing," towhich Legge
ett wryly added: "And getting
rid of himl"

Loewi explained theproposal
that one senior be elected by
his class to serve a [W0*y66r
board term after graduation.
He said that such a member
"could provide part of the in
put on priority decisions”and
that his perspective as a re
c'ent‘student could be benefie
cial to the Board.

The Trustees 'seemedrecep»
tive to having younger meme
hers on the Board, but ObJéC‘
tions were raised about hav-
ing new board members elec-
ted byandperhaps responsible
to a specific constiuency. Tre
ustee Warren Buffett, two-
year member of the Board,
noted that in the short [WO’
year term proposed the board
member couldhardly learn the
financial and legal intricacies
involved.

Many trustees also felt that
someone speakingto the Board
from outside, as Loewi had
done that afternoon, was in a
position of greater strength.
As one trustee said, “Andy,
we sure wouldn’t listen to
another board member talk
for an hour!"

Euffett brought up lack of
financial support from alumni,
saying that only 15% of Grin-
nell graduates contribute at
all, He compared this with Ivy
League schools where the ava
erage is 50 to 60%. Various
reasons for Grinnell's prob
lem were suggested, as were
possible solutions. More such
discussions are likely to fol-
low in the months ahead.

At 9:50 the meeting broke up
into small groups again, where
discussions continued for
some time.

Sunday

Sunday morning at 9:00 the
committee on trustees (a sel-
ection committee) and the ins
vestment committee met in
closed session. Trustees not
on those committees met with
the executive cabinet of SGA
and Deans Klmbo, MacDOV‘k
ell, and Wall to discuss the
revised judicial council pro-
posal which will go to student
referendum shortly.

Greg Vranicar outlined the
proposal, saying that it “tries
to give the judicial councils
more credibility in the eyes
of the students." He notedthat
the all~campus council would
have three students and two

Forest green wilderness.
6 inch casual campandhikr

CUMBERLAND

ing boot.
leather.
cushioned quarter.

Reverse grain
Leather line d
Soft

padded top collar. Steel she

ank support.
sure.

Alpine clo-

Welt constructed.

Security Vibram sole and
heel with deep tred.

Brown’s Shoe Store
907 MAIN

hculty members, eliminating
problems of deadlock votes
under the old 3‘3 system. He
pointed out that open hearings
of the all- campus council are
to be limited to 72 "observ-
ers", which he said “might
eliminate the circusatmosphr
ere sometimes seen.”

Trustee Maxwell Herriot, a
Milwaukee attomey,askedser
vera] wells considered quests
ions andmade suggestions wh-
ich may result in slight chan-
ges in the proposal before it
goes to a student v0te. Other
truStees asked about the small
number of cases heard, espe
cially by the hallcouncils. Lo-
ewi drew a laughwith his esti*
mation of student feeling: "If
you take someone to the judi~
cial council, you’re a fink!"

Discussion then turned to th-
ree areas outside the judicial
council’s jurisdiction: acadee
mic dishonesty, drug cases,
and the “disruption clause"
recently incorporated into the
trustees' by-laws.

After Wall described proce*
dures for cases of academic
cheating and Kimbo discussed
organization and progress of
the recentlykestablished drug
hearing board, the group ex—
amined the new disruption C1,
ause. Under the clause, the
president may take emer-
gency action which is later
subject to review by a board
composed of three faculty
members appointed by the ch-
airman of the faculty.

Loewi and Vranicar quest-
ioned the “vague” definitions
of emergency and the wisdom
of having only faculty membe
ers review actions the presir
dent might take under such
conditions.

Loewi suggested including
students on the review board,
saying, "In an emergencysit-
uation, I could hardly expect
the faculty to be any more im-
partial than students." He nos
ted that faculty members mir
ght also have specific inter-
ests to protect in such a site
uation.

The trustees present agreed
that, if the students can come
up with a more satisfactory
version of the disruption cl-
ause, they will be willing to
consider it.

The meeting broke up at ll
and the board held a closed
general meeting to hear rev
commendations from the two
a

Thanks for
letting us
serve you

POWESHIE

mmmvmmmm

 

401 l Broad/5!!! & West - Grimm/I

Ndvember 20, 1970
committees which had been
meeting. A trustee present
reported that Wall, speaking
on curricular revision, pre-
dicted that some form of wt
orial proposal will be passed.

The Board metprivately with
Leggett from 2 to 3, after whe
ich they met informally with
students in the Forum South
Lounge, Loewi suggested that
there be no formal group dis-
cussion, and small groups of
students gathered with each
trustee there. An estimated
50 to 70 trustees,administrae
tors, and students were pre*
sent.

Andy Loewi, commenting on
the weekend with the Trust
ees, said: "I was again 'im-
pressed with the trustees as
people and their willingness to
talk withstudents. A number of
trustees even asked that they
be housed in dorms when they
return this spring.

"The trustees will be an ime
portant source of decisions
in the next few years, espec-
ially on priorities. The Stud’
ents should have no trouble
expressing theirviews to them
in the future

Road Service

Leo's Standard

236- 7160
SIXTH El WEST

GLASSES
Made and Repaired
in Out Laboratory

Contact Lenses

Cases and
Solutions

Eyes Examined
P hone 236-3979

“Jonson, OJ).
OPTOM ETR | ST

Across from Post Office
Closed Thursday p.m.
and Sat. p.m.

 

Motor Bank are A wm

“on... BAN K

 

 

 

