Page Two

SCARLET AND BLACK

Friday. October 3, ms

 

Jim, 5mm (Boat

By Henry Schen

Tuesday night’s Senate meet-
lng was brief, and no earth—
shaldng business occurred. The
only real crisis was over the
iunding of the all»camplls ple-
nlo planned for Saturday with
the Grinnell High School stu-
dents. Senator Andrew Brill re
quested a finance committee

meeting to find the necessary
funds, and called {or an emer-
gency senate meeting later in
the week to approve the allo-
cation, '

A constitutional reform com-
mittee was set up to form pro-
posals for clariiying and modi-
fying the present SGA Consti»
tiltion. The committee will be
chaired by Assistant Student
Coordinator S tev e Schwartz,
and it will consider election
reforms and hall judicial coun-
cil reforms, as m o n g other
things,

The senate once again tabled
a motion on the Betts commit-
tee proposal to the faculty that
would allow students ten vol-
lng representatives on the lac-
ulty. president Leggett is is.
portedly forming proposals of
his own, and the Senate thought
it should wait until the matter
was clarified,

Senator Bill Straliger's mo-
tion to invite Mr. Hawn to next
week's senate meeting to dis-
cuss the maid situation was
passed, A number of senators
expressed dissatistaction with

the present maid service. Now
that the new maid system has
had a chance to operate, Stran—
ger felt that Hawn ought to be
consulted again belore the sen-
ate makes any recommenda-
tions.

The Student Coordinator’s or.
floe has received a number of
complaints about line cutting
at the dining rooms, it was an-
nounced The office is consid-
ering the possibility of some
sort or enforcement system,
perhaps involving SGA ofﬁcials
as “policemen." The Coordina-
tor’s office also had a com-
plaint that senate meeting
minutes were unavailable.

Senior Larry r-ranir made
a motion that the senate attend
Monday night’s City Council
meeting where he plans to in<
troduce a resolution supporting
the principle or me Vietnam
Moratorium. The senate passed
the measure and urged any
interested students to attend.

Senator Hill Thomas gave a
report trom the Health Center
committee. The committee is
basically looking into three
things: 1) investigation or a
better health insurance plan;
2) investigation or the possi<
bility of having a doctor on
campus; and 3) investigating
the possibility or getting a
clinical psychologist on cam-
pus part time. Thomas was op-
timistic about the ﬁrst and
third points, but expressed
doubts about the Ieasibility or

 

penned”

“WAYS Finer ousun
SPECIAL DURING

PEN N EY DAYS

Stock Up Now
Pailiie Hose Wu L69 NOW1.33 pr.

 

ANlSH MAID BAKERY

The FineslL in Pastries

Usual and

Unusual.

818 FOURTH AVENUE

 

Let» Us,Tell'Ybu Wher
' ‘ GRINNELL-

the college having its own doo-
tor.

Finally, Lee Edmond moved
that the senate allocate $3 tor
a bell tor the big “black” dog
on campus that has been sys-
lematically wiping out the
squirrel population or Grinnell
College, It was thought that
Dean Alice Low would View
this allocation rather dimly,
but the senate deemed the
question urgent enough to allot
the tunds anyway. Senator Bill
Stranger reported that Tory
Pioneer. the college mascot,
likes the black dog but doesn’t
understand why it iii-res to kill
squirrels.

Youlliqualie:
Town-Gown Fete
Set for Salurday

By Mark Graeser

Central c a m p u s tomorrow
will be the scene of a rumbling,
rocking youthquakc—a cel-
ebratiun of life and love and
sunshine, shared with the Grin:
nell High School students,
iaculty and start.

It will start at noon with an
all-campus picnic. Both Cowles
and Quad will be closed tomor—
row for lunch, unless it rains
(impossiblel). .

Bring your body and sham
ln the music, dancing. trampol»
ing, body painting, bubble—
blowing, dog-chasing, balla
bouncing, troiicking and general
good times.

Grinnell College, meet Grin-
nell High School. I don't believe
you’ve ever met before. Funny,
but l’ll bet you look pretty
much alike up close

Up close. Will you let it hap-

pen?

BRYAN’S
SHOE SERVICE

Across From th-
Library

"If your shoes aren't '
becoming to you.
They should be
coming to us."

GLASSES

Made and Repaired
in Our Laboratory

Contact Lenses

Cases and
Solutions

Eyes Exor mined
Phone 235.3979

E. l. Jensen, 0.0.

’ orromrnlsr

Across from Post Office
closed Thursi PM,
and Star. PM

Moratorium Planners Meet

Some loo persons met in the
South Lounge on Monday night
to make plans for the October
15 Moratorium against the Viet-
nam War. Several iaculty
members and high school stu-
dents also attended.

The goal or the nationwide
Moratorium is to Set aside one
day in which people can cease
“business as usual” and de-

.vote their time and thought to

anti-war activities. it no policy
change is made in response to
this action, a twoday Morator-
ium is planned for November,
a threeday Moratorium in De-
oember, etci

Preliminary plans have been
made for several activities on
October 15 here in Grinnell.
Some of the possibilities include
a teachrin, a rally downtown,
on all-nite vigil in Herrick
Chapel, and participation in a
state-wide rally in Des Muines
that evening,

Moratorium committee chair-

man Barry Zigas, a freshman,
spent considerable time dis«
cussing ways of spreading in.
formation about the event.
Plans were made to cummuni~
cate with the raculty. Various
methods, such as leaﬂetting,
were proposed for encouraging
townspeople to participate,

Senior Larry Frank an-
nounced that a resolution in
favor of the Moratorium would
he introduced at the Grinnell
City Council meeting Monday
night. He asked that as many
people as possible attend the
meeting at 7:30 in the Grinnell
City rollices, located at Bread
and Commerciaii

Inlormation tables will be set
up on campus, A proposal to
Sell buttons at these tables, in
order to defray expenses, was
also discussed at Monday’s
meeting.

The Vietnam Moratorium has
been endorsed by the student
senate, the Grinnell Student
Movement, and the 8&3.

 

Sludenl Opera. Opens Tomorrow

Long hours or research and
rehearsal will culminate in the
student production ot Monte-
verdi's ll Hallo Belle Ingrqto
tonight and tomorrow night at
a pm. in Herrick Chapel.

The opera, written in 1607 in
Msntua. is one of the earliest
ever written. Somewhat resem-
bling the English ”Masques"
or me same period, the short
opera tells how Cupid’s arrows
of love lost their ellect because
contemporary women were so
Gold to their lovers.

The action begins when Venus
and Cupid go to the mouth or
Hell to request a favor of Plu-
tone, the Devil. They ask him
to release some “ungrateful
women” from Hell as an ex-
ample to the women in the
audience.

Aiter some persuasion, Plu-
tone consents, and the hallo
deIle lngratc (dance or the un-
grateiul women) begins. At the
end or the opera, Plutone or-
ders all the women to return to
Hell, but an especially unhappy
one lingers tor a moment to
finish the show with a sad de'
scription of her late.

Heading the cast are sopho<
more Floyd Slotterback as Plu-
lone, senior Nancy Kenworthy
as Venus, sophomore Diane
Deever as Cupid, and sopho—

JD'S RESTAURANT
722 in Main

Mari. . 5st, 5 rs in ppm).
Sunday—Noon to lo p.m.

more Christine Midellort as tho
ungrateful woman, All orches-
tra, Chorus, and dancers Will
also be leaturedr

Music tor the opera is direct-
ed by Assti Protessor James
Wyly (Music), who during thl
past summer assembled a com-
plete score trom editions oi
the Monteverdi original. The
composer wrote only the bass
line and melody tor the opera,
and musicians or the period im-
provised the rest. Modern muv
sicians are not trained for such
improvisation, so Wyly wrote
out the Entire score,

Choreography tor the Munte~
Verdi opera is being handled
by Mrs. Betty Voertman and
staging by senior Ned Benton.
Costumes for the production
were designed by junior Susan
Perkinsi

} Faculty

Continued trom Pg. 1

matters out of the way betore
a regular meeting rather than
to crowd them into a business
meeting. At the next faculty
meeting, on October 6, the al-
ready open issues of student
attendance, and of the faculty’s
stance on the October 15 Mom-
torinm, will undoubtedly be
considered.

llllllllllllllllllllllllltillltlllllllllllllltlllllllillllllltlllllllllllllltlllllllllli

Opportunities

FOR TYPING in my home a
call Joan Devel‘cux. 236-4407.

PORCH SALE: All day Thurs-
day, Friday, Saturday, Oct. 2.
3, 4 Chairs ﬂ Rocking, easy
chairs. tables, dishes, lamps
miscellaneous and novelty
items. 1005 Chatterton Street,

A CLOTHES and Rummage
Sale, sponsored by Grinnell
College taculty wives to bone-
tit the Martin Luther king
Scholarship Fund, will be
held tomorrow irom 10 am,
to 4 pm. at Veteran‘s Mem-
orial Building in tlowntouo
GrinnelL

 

