 

PAGE 8

liberman Work
On Porter Published

GRINNELL, IA. -— "Katherr
ine Anne Porter’s Fiction," a
critical study by M.M. Liber-
man, professor of English at
Grinnell College, is sched-
uled for winter publication by
Wayne University Press, De—
troit.

The volume will be distribu-
ted simultaneously in Canada
by Copp-Clark, Toronto.

Prof. Liberman, a member
of the Grinnell faculty since
1960, is the author of "Magr
got and Worm," a collection
of stories published last fall
by the Cummington Press,
West Branch.

He is co-author of "A Mad
ern Lexicon of Literary
Terms" and “A Preface to
Literary Analysis,"andis co-
editor of ”The Practice of
Criticism.”

The Publications Com-
mittee is soliciting applir
cations for the position of
literary editor of theScar-
let and Black for second
semester. Duties will in-
clude producing two or
three four‘page supple-
ments to 5&B. The position
will be salaried. Applica-
tions are due in Mr. Jor-
dan's post office box by

December 9.

in“
«1‘

EGAD!
let BO know

how you’re going to go

GREYHOUND

236-5122
Buy tickets early

(“'5‘
n\t 0“

COLD FEET?

lADlES SNOW

I®®if©

large selection
all heights-colors-sizes

Brown’s Shoe Store

THE ONLY SHOE STORE ON MAIN STREET

“what ifa keen ofa lean wind flays

p BLA
‘ it; i '

t .

screaming hills with sleet and snow"
- -e.e. cummings

in V , 1 ‘/
(phOto by Marty Sachs)

Ecological Pop Machines Come To Grinnell

Remember how, once upon a
time (last year), Grinnellstu-
dents enjoyed the luscious fla-
vors of soft drinks from mm-
pus pop machines? But then
came increasedvandalism and
ecological awareness, and re
member how the Senate banned
those evil machines with their
non- decomposable cans?

Well, weep no longer, for
those pop machines have re-
turned once again _, but this
time with new, handy, return‘
able bottles instead of cans.

Bottles are more ecologicr
ally sound than cans; for cans,
in the words of LEAP Direc-
tor Granville Smith, “just go
into a land fill somewhere.”
Battles, however, can be re-
cycled and used repeatedly.
The Foreign Student Board
will, as before, receive the

 

profits from said machines,
to be used for such things as
providing scholarships and
transpormtion expenses for
foreign students, as well as
funding the various activities
of the Board.

The machines are located in
six places on campus: the
Loose laundry room, in the
South Campus loggia near the
reception center, Gardner
lounge, Cowles hall, the north
end of Langan pit, and in
Younker hall. The flavor sel»
actions are subject to change
pending student reaction.
There are empty bottle racks
on each floor, into which stu-
dents will hODefully place all

empty bottles. Several times
a week these cases will be
emptied and returned to the
floor.

The cooperation of all stud-
ents is necessary in this ens
deavor, for the expense of the
bottles is such that the Board
will lose money if many ofthe
bottles are not recycled. If
too many bottles are lost or
not returned, the financial
burden may necessitate re-
moval of the machines. The
Foreign Student Board antic
cipates, however, that no such
problems will develop, and
CocarCola and Grinnell can
live in peace and harmony.

December 4, 1970

Orchgstra Plans:

Concerts, Credits

The Grinnell College orchr
estra, this year under the dir-
ection of David Wooldridge,
has given two concerts so far
this year. Two more concerts,
featuring soloists from the
Francesco Trio, are planned
for next semester.

Earlier in the year the orch-
estra elected a six-member
committee whichhas been dis
cussing such things as possi—
ble repertoire selections for
the concerts and the possibir
lity of raising the amount of
credits given for participa‘
tion in the orchestra. Pre-
sently only one creditperyear
is given; the committee hopes
to have this raised to two a
semester, pending future dis-
cussions with the Administra-
tion and the Faculty. This,
Wooldridge feels, would help
alleviate one of the major
problems the orchestra has
had this year -- lack of at-
tendance at rehearsals. Ac-
cording to Wooldridge, ”an
orchestra must be a team 7*
and any missing member con-
stitutes a real problem."

In a recent meeting the com-
mittee considered the various
possibilities for pieces to be
played on the remaining con~
certs. On February 20, the
Orchestra will feature David
Abel, violinist, playing a
Beethoven violin concerto.
The April 17 concert will
feature Nathan Schwartz at
the piano. The orchestra will
also play some pieces by
Wooldridge himself on one of
those concerts, and is plan-
ning to play Debussy's "Afr
ternoon of a Faun," since a
member of the music depart-
ment, who is now on leave,
dared the orchestra to play
it, claiming that they could
never be capable of handling
it.

Ravi Slronltor To Appear At Cornell December 7

Ravi Shankar, India's sitar
virtuoso and composer, will
present a concert at Cornell
College's King Chapel Mon-
day (Dec 7) at 8:15 p.rn. Ace
companying him will be Alla
Rakha playing the tabla (dou—
ble drums) and Kamala Char
kravarty on the mmboura (st-
ringed dronc instrument).

Tickets are $ apiece, and
may be purchased at the Corr
nell business office.

Born in Benares, India, in
1920, Shankar devoted seven
years to the intense study of
the sitar. Then, at the age of
25, he set out to disseminate
Indian classical music to the
people of other cultures. He
has found an audience in Eu-
rope, the Far East and the

United Staes, and has come
to be regarded as a sort of
musical guru to American lis-
teners.

Shankar plays the classical
Indian music known as "Raga
Sangeet," which can be traced
back at least two thousand
years. The ray is a melodic
form on which the music is
based; there are thousands of
ragas built on 72 scales. A
performer improvises on a
chosen raga in any manner
and as long as he wants to.
The sitar, the most popular
stringed instrument of India,
has existed in its present form
for approximately 700 years.
It is fashioned from a seasonr
ed gourd and teakwood, with
six or seven main playing
strings and 13 sympathetic

 

 

Share MW. Life

with a COMMUNITY of CONCERNED and
FRAYERFUL men involved with youth.

For information about the

BROTHERS

OF HOLY

CROSS write to:
Bro. Robert Fillmore

Basil Hall

Notre Dame, Indiana 46556

ON THE lZlh DAY OF

CHRISTMAS MY TRUE
LOVE GAVE TO ME . . .

r 12
HRVANOS
PIZZASM

236-6222

7

 

resonating strings.

Although a traditionalist,
Shankar has also experimenr
ted in the creative fields as
a composer of orchestral,ba—
llet and film music.

Initiative Fund

(continued from page 4)

see that the fund is used in
accordance with the rules of
the College and more widely,
general civil law. The Com-
mittee also has a responsibi~
lity to the students to see that
as many as possible get a
chance touse the fund. Finally,
within the range of these lim'
its imposed on the Commit-
tee, there are a wide number
of events fundahle. It is the
policy of the Committee to en‘
courage "innovative" types
of events but it is apparent
that the fund is meant to in-
clude the more traditional ty~
pes of activities too, simply
on the basis of the fund’s his-
tory in recent years. In fact,
the present guidelines devel-
oped by “Doug Mendenhall
and the gang" and later ape
proved by S.G.A. are, I think,
based generally on this dev-
elopment of the fund through
the years, as the Committee
saw it. Hopefully, in light of
this, most people an find the
guidelines and general policy
of the Initiative Fund Com-
mittee acceptable. Contrary
to a widely held opinion, the
Initiative Fund committee
isn't out to screw the world!
Doug Mendenhall

Initiative Fund Committee
Chairman

 

