FIVE NATIONAL LEADERS, including SDS National Secretary Mark Rudd are arrested by the Chicago "Red Squad."

which had obtained a parade permit ear—
lier, moved into the street. They mar—
ched at a rapid pace for more than
eight blocks east on Randolph St. As
the crowd moved out of Haymarket Sq.,
led by a squad car, a half dozen un—
marked cars pulled into the street be—
hind them. The officers who had pat.—
rolled the Square also formed behind
the marchers.

LEAﬁER SEIZED:

page fourteen

As the march moved east, squads of
police who had lined the street joined
the officers behind the crowd. Uniform—
ed and plainclothes police kept pace on
the sidewalk. The march ten turned
south on LaSalle, according to the pro—
scribed route. By this time, over 75
officers were following the demonstra—
tors. As the 325 Weathermen passed one
policeman, he muttered increduously,

"Red Squad” members make arrest immediately prior to set. rally.

"Is this it? Are these all?" A woman
bystander said angrily, "They shouldn't
leave them alone, they know what they
are going to do."

After marching south for two blocks,
a leader suddenly yelled "Break!” With
a shout the Weathermen turned east on
Madison, of the official route. One
poliCeman was immediately thrown throng
a plate glass window at the Railway Ex—
press office at the corner of Madison
and LaSalle. Demonstrators charged do
Madison, battling police as they went.

Over 100 police in full riot gear
almost immediately closed in behind the
Weathermen, joining those who had fol—
lowed the march. They pursued the de—
monstrators as they headed east past
Clark and Dearborn, where they were met
head on by another contingent of police

At Dearborn, the Weathermen split
into three groups, one heading east on
Madison toward State St., the other mov
ing north and south on Dearborn. "Fol—
low them, get them," officers shouted
to their men. As police began to round
up the marchers, several discarded thei
helmets and were able to avoid detec~
tion.

At Clark and Madison, a demonstrator
was felled, unconscious, at the center
of the intersection. Police first al—
lowed a member of the "medical cadre"
to treat the youth, then carried the
unconscious demonstrator to a waiting
squad car by his arms and legs. The
medic was also arrested and taken away
in a paddy wagon.

A more serious casualty occurred
earlier in the fight when assistant
corporation counsel Richard Elrod at-
tempted to arrest a demonstrator. He

 

