_page eighteen

The RYM—II—Panther—Lord march began
with a rally at the Chicago People's
Park. As the march was in honor of Man—
uel Campos, a slain Puerto Rican inde—
pendence leaderY Young Lord spokesmen
dominated the speeches.

Speakers included the Secretary for
Communications of the Young Lords, other
Young Lord leaders, and a leader of the
RYM—II group. As was the case at pre—
vious rallies, the speakers condemned
the actions of the Weathermen. The de—
monstrators were told that the police
would again try to provoke a confron—
tation, but that at this point of the
revolutionary struggle it was important
that people fight only in self defense.

Leaders announced that no permit had
been granted for the march. With a
shout of "the streets belong to the
people," however, the demonstrators mo~
ved out into the street to begin the
march.

As the march began, over 1500 were
participating. This was the largest
crowd at any activity during the Nation—

 

