vivid-y. October II. I?“

SCARLET AND BLACK

 

NEWS BRIEFS

The following sophomore:
were elected to the Hermitsl an
honorary scholastic cluo: Thom-
as Merrill, Eric Werner, David
Olmstedt, Dale Johnson, Philip
Mears, Robert Dorset, Ira Bol-
nick.

Fred C. Hess, associate di-
rector oi development at Grin-

nell, was awarded the 1968
presidential citation for extra-
ordinary service to the Amer-
ican College Public Relations
Association,

The Grinllell College Cata-
logue, edited by Mrs. Ruth
Prescott, received a special cl-
tation for excellence at the 1958
national conference of the Am-
erican Alumni Council. '

 

ELLA'S FLOWERS

See or all My Campus Reps.
For The Finest ln

HOMECOMING CORSAGES

DON PETERSON — Cowles. Smith Rt Lanqon Ext. 506

BILL GRAY -— Dibble. North 8( South .

Ext. 350

STAN WEZELMAN — Clark, Rawson lr Gate; Ext. 359

LARRY GRIMM —Eust 8r West ..
GINA MILLS — South Campus .

Giant
Poster

from any photo

w ' . ,
2 ft. x 3 it.
only s 95*
.
(“NEVA-n)

“Send any black a: white or Dolor
photo (no negntivm) and the name
"Swingllne"cutoulfromnnySwii-igline
package (or reasonable lasimile) to:
POSTER-MART. PD. Bait 165,
Woodside, N1 “377. Enclose $1.95
cash, check, or money order (no
CODIx). Add sales tax where sppli.
Inble.

Poster rnlled and mailed (Posh
paid) in sturdy tube. Original mate.

rial returned undamaged. Satisfaction
guaranteed.

Get a
Swingline
Tog Stapler

(inrindi... loon airplay)
Larger six: curs Desk
Supler only $1.69

tinny gnunntom.
.anary. "new. at mm

mun tsuluo dint. w. "in

. Ext. 579
. Ext. 365

) Powell

(Continued mm Page 1)

the candidates — Humphrey,
Nixon, or Wallace — yet ap~
preaches the stand Powell’s
Support is contingent upon al-
though he contends that in the
remaining weeks at the cam-
paign, Humphrey could effect
another 1943 Truman victory.
Powell insists that Humphrey
“cut the umbilical cord with
the President; get out at Viet—
nam immediately; reduce de-
fense appropriations. restore
cuts, and double spending; and
define ‘law and nrder’.” He
emphasized elimination of the
Cosa Nustra, (he Malia, and
syndicated rackets such as nar-
cotics, prostitution, and gam-
bling, as the ”real law and or-
der."

A sense of optimism charac<
terized Powell’s third subject:
the role ol young people in the
rebellion against the Various
establishments. “It the Czech
students can rebel and put out
their 'establishment' -— al-
though it might not last # what
is the excuse for young Blacks
and whites not putting out the
‘establishment’ in this Country?
You don’t know what power you
have, you have broken with the
older generation and thank
God you have."

The sixtyyear old Congress-

ART SUPPLIES

Posters, Frames, Gifts

llllLW ddlﬂh WhEEl.

813 4TH AVENUE

Grinnell’s Decorating Center

{denim and
Beauty Aids

A Low Low
Discount Prices

SNACK ITEMS

MtNALLY'S

Open Every Night Till 9

PIONEER PREPS
BEAT WARTBURG

The freshman lootball team
displayed the effect that desire
and determination can have on
the outcome of a game. Monday
alteinoon they beat a team with
almost twice as many (as well
as bigger) players. Wartburg
College, where athletic scholar-
ships are legal, played a hard-
hitting, tough game. The Pio-
neer preps were determined to
win, however. even late in the
second halt when injuries and
fatigue were taking their toll
(it must have been discourag-
ing to keep seeing their trash
players that late in the game).

Bill Dicks did a fine job at
quarterback. throwing heantilul
passes with precision and un-
canny coutheadedncss. Jim PL
rolli made some excellent
catches as did Scott l-lanson.
Nick Russo and Mario Engnan-

man, spokesman for the Black,
Spanish, and Italian Americans
in the eighteenth district, Har-
lem. chaired the House Com~
mittee on Education and Labor
for six years. During this pe<
riod, he inﬂuenced the passage
of over 60 pieces 0! major leg-
islation, including vocational
education projects, manpower
training programs, and higher
education assistance acts.

rag. him

no were great in runners and
as defensive players. The of-
iensive line opened up holes
when necessary, and was
able to hold very well for pass-
or protection The delensive lino
showed signs oi fatigue during
the second hall because oi the
continual battering they re
ceived lrom reireshed Warthurg
uttenses, out when called upon
to hold the line deep in their own
territory, time alter time they
halted drives. This looks like
the beginning or the second
straight year or great lreshman
football teams. This afternoon
they tace Knox at Galesourg,
but on the 25th they play Coo
here.

SRC Outing

Do you dig rock? How about
it iossil hunt? That does not
mean searching tor old Flem-
dactyls tor wrapping garbage.
Your Student Recreation C0m<
mission is sponsoring tor You
an outing which consists of bird
watching, hiking and iossil
hunting on Sunday, October 13
trom1:304:o0. If you are at all
'ulterested. call Jane Coleman
at extension 450 {or more de-
tails and to sign up, but do so
quickly, as only a limited num-
ber of outdoor lovers can go.
The group will meet at the
Science Building parking 10L

Weekends Aren’t Any Fun
Without a Trip to . . .

AHRVANO'S PIZZA

MON. - THURS., 5-1
FRI.. SAT. AND SUN.. 5-2

Tom 8r Bette Gorbison

Free Delivery

236-6222

EEn

DOUBLE

GOLD

0M9

STAMPS

On Wednesdays

WE ACCEPT VOUCHERS

$UPER VALE

1021 Main

 

