December 4, 19701.4

THE SCARLET AND<BLACK- -«

SGA Falls Into Semester Slump

by Don Dagenais
Since last time news of Sena
ate activities have graced
these pages, the Senate has
been largely inactive due to
increasing pressure of aca-
demic interests (or so they
claim). Two weeks ago the
Senate held a dinner meeting.
Although the discussion was
marked by a lack of complete
seriousness, the Senators did
show some real concern over
die possibilities of student
action involving changes in the

academic structure here.
Ad hoc committees to in~

vestigate various areas of in-
terest were formed. Barry
Zigas and Kit Gage will look
into optional grading, Al Co~
hen and Mike Breed will head
an examination of independent
study, Dave Bensley will lead
the committee on the senior
year, and Ida Gudema and Bill
Kilpatrick will head the group
examining calendar reform.
In the following Tuesday's
meeting Greg Vranicar offer-
ed to look into course evaluac
tion, and the possibility of
publishing a student'written
critique of various courses
and professors. So far little
action has been mken in these
areas, however-presumably
something will be done second

semester.
Despite stiff competition of-

{ered by the production of
Hamlet on the South Lounge
TV, the November 17 meeting
received more response than
practically any other meeting
this year. The entire Social
Coordinating Committee was
on hand to discuss with stud-

ents and Senators the social
programming, this year. The
possibility of having “big
name" bands was the major
topic of discussion. Ed Lee
vine, South Lounge chairman,
noted that such groups cost
at least six or seven thou-
sand dollars, which does pre*
sent a problem of budget lime
itations. Keepnews noted that
negotiations were going on
with several groups (notably
Grateful Dead), but that pri-
ces were going up and that
such groups were generally
hard to deal with because of
their life styles (Jefferson
Airplane, for instance, is

"too high.")

One student had reportedly
suggested to the Committe
that Jefferson Airplane would
be glad to appear here again,
since they gave a concert at
Grinnell before they became
famous and ”got their start
here." Guffaws ensued.

The Committee“ eventually
expressed their opinion that a
more rational social program
is one with small lesser-
known groups with a scattered
variety of styles. There were
no violent objections.

After a week's lapse, the
Senators were back in action
last Tuesday. In a meeting
generally marked by a pro
liferation of yawns, little dis
cussion, and less substantive
action, the Senate virtually
wasted an hour and fifteen
minutes. They didn’t even put
on a good show for the five
students who attended: even
the jokes were worse than

library Enlarges Periodical

Holdings In Downtown location

The downtown periodicals
storage area is now open to
faculty and students from 2 to
5 p.m., Monday through Fric
day. Lomted on the third ﬂ»
00:: of the College Office Buil-
ding at 821 51h Avenue, the
collection contains the lib
rary’s periodiml holdings
prior to 1955.

This action follows the in-
vestigation ofthe Library sub-
committee on security and
accessibility of the library's
collection. The subcommittee
sent a questionnaire to a ran*
dom sampling of faculty and
students, and the responses
to questions about the inacces-
sibility of the older periodi-
cals clearly indicated a need
to open the area and to pro-
vide study room there. The
committee hopes that memb-
ers of the college community
will be able to browse through
volumes instead of being ob-
liged to orderperhaps ten vol-
umes to find thatonly one cone
tains information of use to
them. The move should also
facilitate business at the cir-
culation desk.

Periodicals Bank

Students who need articles
from periodicals not held by
Grinnell are urged to use the
ACM Periodicals Bank.

The Bank contains the com—
bined periodical collections of
the Associated Colleges ofthe
Midwest, and is housed at
Newberry Library in Chicago.
Students may acquire photo»
copies of articles from these
magazines at no cost.

Periodical Bank Holdings,
the list of resources held by
ACM, are available in Burl‘
ing, the Science Library, and
in theScience Seminar Rooms.

When a studentneeds anarti-
cle, he should fill out an In-
terlibrary Loan Form which

can be obtained from the Cir-
culation Desk. Requests are
teletyped immediately to Chi-
cago, and the photocopy is sent
that same day.

Students may also request
resources from Newberry Lie
brary which contains exten-
sive Humanities and History
material.

Students who need further

. help should contact the refer

ence librarian.

usual. Of note, however, is
the fact that Eric Jahn did
bless the group with his ate
tendance, a rare occurrence
this year.

Minor action on severalmin-
or matters was taken. The
SAGA fast this semester, it
was decided, will be held in
benefit of the Pakistan Relief
Fund. Next semester that al-
waysrworthy charity, the Rev.
Martin Luther King Scholarc
ship Fund, will receive the
pennies.

Discussion ensued re a pos-
sible future referendum re-
garding board options. It
seems that some students
(notably the freaks in Confer-
ence House) are either tired
of them good ol' SAGA vit-
tles, or are overconfident in
their own culinary abilities.
At any rate, they wish to be
let out of the SAGA contract
so as to prepare their own
delicacies. This would mean,
however, that board fees for
remaining students would go
up The referendum, there-
fore, will ask students when
ther or not they would mind
letting a few people get by
without taking the board of
fered.

G E T
INVOLVED

mmmurnl

' Eco CONSCIOUSNESS in

downtown Grinnelll United

Food Store shows its concern over phosphate content

of commercial detergents.

(photo by John Pepper)

Preps Claim Grinnell ls Failing

by Amy Siegel.
Sarah Griswold and
Steve Neuberger

Having spent 3 l/Z monthsat
Grinnell College, apredominr
ant image we have is that Grins
nell College is failing in its
ability to properly integrate
our living and learningexpere
iences. Under the current dor-
mitory and academic struc-
ture, students are paying the
college to develop theirtninds
while protecting them from
the process of survival, or
at the very least, selfrdetere
mination. We want more.

Because we feel Grinnell
perpetrates a restrictive pro-
cess which fails to orientstu-
dents towards group learning
and does not create any sort
of dependence between studs
ents, six of us proposed a 16
credit independent last week

which would have encompas-
sed moving offrcampus; with
the intent of improving the
Grinnell experience. Our prof
ject was rejected, as was a
proposal fora co—op lastweek,
and, if proposed, another in-
dependent, Off'mmpusproject
will be rejected within the

next few davs.
Qir prOJect consisted of six

of us moving offecampus and
studying intensively the Conn
cepts of insanity and death as
they pertain to literature, soc~
iology, religion, and psycho-
logy. Each member of the gr-
oup would do the equivalent
to 12716 credit hours of work
and would follow the prescric
bed regulations regarding the
sponsorship of independents.

We felt our project would
have been valuable for the fol-
lowing reasons: 1) Learning
would become a 24 hour a day
process rather than the 4-

Drolt Board Tells New Policy

FROM:

Iowa State Headquarters
Selective Service System

A recent Selective Service
directive extends to a young
man, with a high Random
Sequence Number which will
not be reached during the
year, the right to request the
withdrawal of his deferment,
thereby permitting him to
leave his lottery year in an
available status, and to enter
a lower priority selection gr-
oup on 1 January of the suce
ceeding year. The only defer-
ments which may be relin-
quished are for students, and
occupational, agricultural,
paternity and hardship.

If a registrant retains his
deferment through his lottery
year he will be exposed to
the lOttery in theyearhe loses
his deferment and returns to
a class available for service.
He will then be considered
for induction along with men
with the same lottery number
of that year.

A Random Sequence Number
is considered as reachedwhen
a noncvolunteer registrant is
issued an Order to Report for
Induction by his local board,
and all other registrants in
his local board with that or a
lower number are likewise
considered as being reached.

Due to variances in dates of
birth, enlistment, deferment,
etc., the availability of num-
bers will vary between Selecr
tive Service Local Boards,
and all boards will not have
the same highest reached
number. The highest number
to be reached by a localboard
in Iowa is estimated to be 190
in 1970.

The registrant with a 1970
lottery number who is defers
red and has a reached num-
ber may wish to continue his
deferment and become ex~
posed to the lottery at the
expiration of his deferment.
Should he holda high Random
Selection Sequence Number
which may not be reached for
induction by his local board
during the current lottery
year, he may request,inwrit-
ing, that his local board an-
cel his deferment and classi-
fy him in 1AA, as Available
for Induction. When a regis-
trant leaves a lottery year in
Class I A, and his number is

not reached byhis localboard,
he will be placed in a lower

priority selection group on
January 1 of the subsequent
year.

If he is deferred, or other
wise not available for induc-
tion, and reaches age Zéwith'
out being issued an Order to

Report for Induction before
his 26th birthday, he will be
placed in a lower group for
seleCtion, and will nor be callv
ed unless the demand for mane
power is increased.

A registrant who is classic
fled in an available Classifi-
cation, andhasa reached numc
ber but has not been issued
an Order to Report for Induce
tion, will be carried over into
the following year for three
months. If he is notneeded for
induction on the March call
of that yearhe will be removed
from the Extended Priority
Selection Group and placed in
the Second Priority Selection
Group with the exception that
any member who would have
been ordered to report for in~
duction to fill the last call of
the first quarter of the year,
but could not be issued an
Order because of regulatory
or statutory procedures, shall
remain in the Extended Priors
ity Selection Group and be or-
dered to report for induction
as soon as practicable. The
current year's Random selecV
ted numbers are considered
the First Priority Selection
Group through that calendar
year.

When a call is filled for the

(continued to page 6)

classes/week process we feel
it is currently. 2) We would
form a more accurate repre
sentation of society based up-
on a mutual dependency be»
tween students - totally lack-
ing outside the classroom at

Grinnell. 3) Most importantly,
because we would function as
a group, the social and intel-
lectual aspects of living and
learning would become one;
whereas under the current
structure of Grinnell there is ~"
absolutely no connection be-
tween the two.

After a 35 minute conference
with Bankers WallandWalker,
it was made explicitly clear
to us, that while our propOsal
was legitimate ”intellect-
ually," we were‘ rejected as a
threat which might encourage
other students to followa sim—
ilar course and transitively
jeopardize the current Grin-
nell structure, Banker Walker
saved Banker Wall’s day by
pointing out a rule regarding
moving off-campus, and that
was that.

Banker Wall emphasized that
as long as Grinnell College
functioned under its current
economic structure, projects
such as ours were simply unc
workable. Grinnell College,
like so many educational in-
stltuuonys in this country, is
having rather momentous fin-
ancial problems these days.
Consequently, the college
feels it is necessary to refuse
certain demands which might
upset the present structure
and result in the college 105'
ing money.

This brings forth a number
of queStions, the primary one
being the purpose of the col-
lege. It would seem, from what
we have been told ofeducation,
that school is where one goes
to learn things to make
her/him more capable ofdoing
any number of things. It would
also seem then,thatthe school
would be willing to change if
its students felt they were no
longer learning.

However, we wonder ifthis is
actually the true purpose of
Grinnell College, since it
seems more interested in
keeping itself alive than pro
viding its students withan edu-
cation which educates them.

(continued to page 7)

 

