Raga Slx

SCARLET AND BLACK

 

’Reply to Fletcher

(continued tronl Page 2)

inal'athon negotiation and dip-
omatie maneuver without ser-
ious intention to address then
selves to the students' griev-
ances, the students will oi ne-
cesslty begin to seek oihel‘
means or efiectlng change.

When the administration races
the reality and legitimacy or
the students' demands, the call
ior revolt will become irrele-
vant

Hopefully the attitude of
Protessor Fletcher is not in
dicative or the iaculty opinion
at large. But this is a pious
hope If his attitude does rs-
ilect a substantial proportion

 

WEAR T‘I-IE PROMISE OF SPRING IN YOUR HAIR
Start now through . . .

NATIONAL BEAUTY SALON WEEK

FEBRUARY 12-”

to null for professional buuty services

MODERNISTIC BEAUTY SALON

Comer 5th Br Brood

Did 236-3089

 

rennet, '

ALWAVI FIRST mum"

OPEN FRIDAY I'll-I. WOO

COMPLETE STOCK NOW

SHORT SLEEVE
SWEAT SHIRT

Men's and Ladies‘
Assorted Colors

$179

of the iaculty opinion, it
merely demonstrates how far
the faculty will have to come
before it eonironts the reality
or students’ grievances. II the
group is tagged as revolution-
ary (revolutionary adventure
ists at that) ior demanding
that liberal values have a more
substantial reality than in tho
realm or “spirit," one is in-
clined to accept this as an int-
plicit diagnosis of how far
hypocrisy has seeped into the
marrow or the institution

Last Decemher a substantial
portion or the students sup»
ported the student govern-
ment in their action and in
their characterization or the
situation as intolerable. The
situation remains intolerable.
The longer the administration
remains intransigent and the
raoulty acquiesees to reaction.
the more combustible will be
come the mixture of trustra—
tion and legitimate aspiration
of the students. The faculty,
administration, trustees, and
alumni will have to compre-
hend and aecept the tact that
principles are involved in these
issues which cannot and will
not be compromised.

Bil! Grenzeblch

Harpsioord Oonoert
Tomorrow Night

Ralph Kirkpatrick, interna-
tionally known harpsichordlst,
will perrorm tomorrow at 8 pm.
in Roberts Theatre.

He will play Henry Purcell's
“Toccata," the G. F. Handel
“Suite in F Minor,” Rameau’s
“Pieces do Clavecin,” the Cou-
perin “anzieme 0rdre," three
.I. S. Bach selections, and
“Five Sonatas" by Scarlatti.

Kirkpatrick, who made u we
vious appearance at Grinnell
in 1962, has pertormed at num-
erous European iestlvals and
has recorded dozens or works
on the harpsichord and clavi<
chord.

C ybernation

Weekend
February 24

 

WAYNE’S STEAKHOIISE

"the Rex"

restaurant —cocktail lounge

steaks

Frldoy. February lo. mt

Nucleic Acids Lecture

Dr. Frank Finamore at Oak
Ridge National Laboratory will
lecture on “The Rule 0! Nu«
clelc Acids in Development"

next Wednesday, Feb. 15, at
4:30 p.m, in Room 171 of the
Science Building, The nucleic
acids, especially DNA, are the
focus of much exciting current
research on the mechanism or
inherllance.

Pattonlzo Our Advertlsen
@—

For School or
Typewriter
Supplies
Grinnell

Office Supply

GRINNELL. IOWA
Aaron train tho Poet outs.

WHERE YOU NEVER

PAY RETAIL!
EVERY DAY DISCOUNT
PRICES SAVE you MORE

816 5th Ave.
Orinnell. Iowa

Next to the Theater

Get Ready for Spring Now

 

 

M

MENNEN

BABY MAGIC
$1.00 Value 57¢

Lavoris Mouthwash Head and Shoulders

9 mm. to 9 pm. Friday
9 run. to B p.n|. Mon-. Tues..

Wail.I Thurs" Sat.

STORE
HOU RSx

JERGEN'S

Complexion Gel

$1.00 Value 62¢

APRIL SHOWERS

Dusting Powder

3.... 54¢

MENNEN'S SOFSTROKE

SHAVING CREAM

Mennen Deodorant

Push Button

$1.00 Value 57¢

Stripe Toothpaste

King Size Jar Shampoo

’5: Value 53¢

59¢

DRISTAN

DEC’ONGESTAID

Tablm

SI .90 Value $131

LADIES' CANVAS SHOES

OITRISIIN
LEMON DRINK

52s

Schick Double Edge Blades

with Cushian Insole

,.. $151

Super Stainless — IO Bladei

$1.45 Value“ 97 ﬂ

62‘

SAVE 50¢

15- 10¢ Candy Bars
$100

57a

NEW SOHIOK

sunvmu onEAn
98o Value 49¢

Schick Injector Blades

Super Stainless — 1 Blades

$1.00 Value 60‘

 

