Jim Tedermon and John Pfeffer

litre sear

ET HUMAN/3
‘3)“5 uses

Revolving Door Begins Counseling

by Merry Wiesner

The Revolving Door swang
into action at 4 pm. Tuesday,
December 1. it is open from
4:00 RM. to 8:00 A.M. week
4:00 P.M. to 8:00 A.M. week
days, and twenty—four hours
a day on weekends.

There will be two members
on duty locatedinMears base-
ment all the time the center
is open. To provide back-up
for these, two members of
the drug team, two members
of the emotional counseling
team and an RA or faculty
member will be on call. The
center is set up for phone

Ea? anal black

4/111 iOWENSE 0‘“

VOL LXXIX No.6

Trustees Cut Budget By

by Greg Butcher

The days of freerspending
have come to an end here, as
they have at colleges and unit
versities across the country.
The Board of Trustees has
ordered Dean of Administra-
tion Waldo S. Walker to cut
the college’s Current Fund
Budget for 1971,72 by $336,
000. The action was taken in
order to divert gift revenues
to pay part of the college's
Plant Fund deficit of about
$1,500,000.

This year’s Current Fund
Budget is $6,067,633, the re
sult ofa much milder auster—
ity program than will be ins
stituted for next year. Des-
pite a decrease in the number
of faculty members and a
cutback in student services,
the budget rose almost $400,
000 this year (it rose $450,
000 the year before). Walker
will have to halt this inflae
tionary precedent in addition
to making actual cutbacks.
The Trustees initiated the
severe austerity program be-
cause of increasing concern
about the college’s Plant Fund
deficit. They decreed in their
recent meetingthatunrestric-
ted gifts up to $600,000wi11be
applied to the Current Fund
budget, but that any funds be
yond that figure will be used
to defray the Plant Fund dee
ficit. This year’s Current

DECEMBER 4,1970

Fund Budget includes $966,
000 income from unrestricted
gifts; hence the $366,000 bud-
get cut.

Salary increases, expected
to total about $130,000 next
year, will be defrayed by the
recently-announced tuition
and room fee increases, who
ich will net the college about
$165,000. AnadditionalSU stu-
dents (1250 total) will be en
rolled next year to help alle-
viate the college's financial
problems. They will bring in
an extra $111,000; but a sub‘
stantial part of that figure
will go for increased costs for
room, board, financial aidand
other services.

In facing the cutting of more
than 6% of the budget (13% of
the non-salaryportions), Wale
ker has confronted four pros
blem areas affecting budget
control. They are:

1) ”There has been little
organized pregram planning
which has taken availability
of funds into account: nor has
there been a seriously organ-
ized attempt to establish a
priority ranking of the colt
lege’s programs.

2) "Programs and budget its
ems are continually added to
the budget, even after it has
been approved by the trustees.

3) "Expenditures beyondam~
ounts budgeted occur regularr
ly in many of the administra-
tive and academic depart
ments at the college.

Prols Debate PE Requirement,
Are Told 0t Austerity’l’rogrum

In its meeting of Monday,
November 23, the faculty
passed very little legislation
of permanent significance.
The Clotfelter proposal's
benefits were extended to Sent
iors and the phys ed require-
ment was gelded in anticipar
tion of its sacrifi ial slaying,

which should come this Mon-'

day. The only surprise in the
show was Andy Loewi's sup-
port of the revised require
ment. In an 5&8 interview,
eight days later, Loewi clari-
fied his position as not in
support of the requirement
per se, but rather in support
of the intercollegiate athletic
and ontcampus recreational
programs run by the phys ed

departments, which he thougnt
endangered in the event of the
abolition of the requirement.
He has since beenassured that
those programs are inno dan-
ger and now supports theaboe
lition of the requirement.

The faculty met informally
November 30 in orderto listen
to Dean of Administration
Waldo Walker's bad fiscal
neWs. What the bad news
comes to is that a cut of at
least $366,000 in expenditures
out of unrestricted income
must be farmed out amongthe
various departments. They
are now to retire to the Horn,
have a good cry and figure out
which bone they want to be cut
to first. Bitter, bitter are the
lessons of temperence.

GRINNELL, IOWA 50112

$336,000

4) “Finally, I do not believe
that all members ofthe faculty
and administrative staff have
taken seriously our attempts
to impress them with the cri-
tical nature of the financial
condition of the college."

These four major problems
are indicative of the fact that
Grinnell has never really pra-
cticed budget control before.
Walker has proposed these
solutions to the above prob-
lems: l) the establishment of
a faculty Budget Priority P1-
anning Committee; 2) a dcad~
line of January 15 for consid-
eration of all programs for the
budget, plusa contingency fund
for emergencies; 3) encum‘
bering the budget on a line-
item basis (expenditures be
yond the budget then become
impossible); and 4) an educa‘
tional program to convince
faculty and staff of the ser~
iousness of the problem. All
four suggestions have already
been put into effect.

The Budget Priority Planning
Committee consists of three
faculty members appointed by
the president, Walker and
Dean of the College Joseph
Wall. Victor Venette, Robert
Voertman, and Gene Wubbels
are the faculty members. Th-
ere is no student representa-
tion, but Walker insists that
diere is a great deal of input
of student ideas. This com-
mittee will have almost ab
solute power over budget pr-
iorities.

The faculty’s commitment to
budget control will be shown
by January 15. Walker has
asked departments to submit
two budgets - a lean budget
and a normal one - by that
date. last year's response
to austerity was very disap-
pointing, will it be any differ
ent this year.

The budget cut, though as—
toundingly large, would seem
very much overdue. Walker
cited a 1968-69 report pre
pared by Kalamazoo College
which compared the budget
expenditures of all ACM and
GLCA (Great Lakes College
Association) colleges. Grinr
nell was highest in four cate-
gories (student aid, instruct—
ional, student services and
general administration), sec-
ond highest in dormitory and
dining costs, and thirdhighest

(continued to page 6)

counseling, extensions 601 or
602, or for in-person counsel-
ing.

The center will be operating
under some fairly strict pres
cedures: no drugs are to be
allowed in the center, except
in a locked box for disposal
by Chief Peters; staff mem-
bers can't be using drugs
while on duty or on call; cone
fidentlality must be strictly
maintained; statistics on each
person seen or talked to must
be recorded. The staff is go-
ing to attempt a follow-up on
each problem handled, and
birweekly smallrgroup meet-
ings will be held to discuss
cases.

The student counselors are
organized into two "teams,"
one handling drugs, headed
by Mark Shanstrom and Jim
Tederman, and the other coun-
seling, headed by John Pfeffet
and Ed Leong. Mike Swacke
banter, Greg Guroff, Pat Lee-
bens and Dennis Haas com‘
plete the Board of Directors.

For intense physiml drug
reactions, the center iswork‘
ing in cooperation with the
County Hospital. No referral
will be made either to the
school or the student‘s par-
ents for treatment,andfriends
will be allowed to be with the
patient while he is coming
down. The Board of Directors
this week issued a statement
of purpose which reads:

The Revolving Door isa non-
profit corporation esmblished
to serve the needs of student
problems, be they academic
or social. It is primarily a
“contact house". By this we
mean that it is not intended
to replace other counseling
services available on mmpus
and in the community but to
coordinate the use of these
services by making refer-

rals to them when approp—
riate. The center will counsel
and/or refer problems rang-
ing from loneliness to severe
psychological stress, from
academic hassles to interper-
sonal and sexual hang-ups to
unfavorable drug reactions.
The aim of the center is to be
able to assist any student with
any problem, granted that stu-
dent seeks help.

The Revolving Door is also
meant to fill in gaps in the
available services, the most
noticeable being the lack of
any one designated place wh-
ere students may go with ime
mediate drug reactions. We
are set up for short-term
counseling with the aim of
having a readily available per-
sonal and non-threatening en-
vironment.

The RevolvingDoorwillwork
in conjunction with college
and nonecollege resources,
utilizing a referral system
whereby more qualiﬁed per-
sonnel may undertake prob-
lems of a wider scope than
the Revolving Door staff can
personally handle. Consulm-
tions and referrals will be
directed to an M.D., a clinical
psychiatrist, helpful faculty
members and administrative
officials, and other facets of
the present student counselv
ing program-"students as
well as non—students.

It is also the intent of the
Revolving Door to sponsor one
going training for staff mem-
bers, and to present and con-
duct educational resources
and programs to the Grinnell
community'at-large.

The purpose of the Revolving
Door, as an operational crisis
center, is not to compete with
but rather to coordinate and
complement other existing
programs of this nature.

Faculty Examines Constructive
Plans For Reforming Curriruluni

by John Pepper

and Tim Porges

The new semester shouldpr-
ove to be as exciting, ina quiet
way, as the current one in mat-
ters of academic reform. The
abolition of the phys ed re-
quirement, which may come
within the week, will exhaust
the possibilities of reform-
byeabolition- -unless of cour-
se the faculty decides to abo-
lish the current divisional,
departmental, administrative,
grading, crediting and class
room oriented education sys-
tems and starts all over from
scratch. But do not hold your
breath, kids.

The most interesting reform
is to be looked for from the
new Freshman Year Commit-
tee, and from the various in-
ter - and A intradepartmental
memos, and position papers,
in which considerably more
will be said than has been,
especially on the restructure
ing of the divisional classifi-
cation of departments, which
has been a live if not active
issue since September.

The committee should be set
up and working by the close of
the current semester. Six ex-
perimental freshman tutorials
have been accepted; two each
in Science, SOclal Studies and
Humanities divisions. Though
they are not tied to the advis-
ing system in quite the same
way as envisionedby the Jones
proposal, they should give a
fair indication ofthe problems
which the new program will
enmil.

The abolition of require-
ments should have aprofound,
if short-term, effect in the
departments most favored by

Dean Joseph Wall

the old core-curriculum sysr
tem.

A droproff of enrollment of
50% in languages and 30% in
Sciences especially at the in-
troductory level, is thought
probable. Other colleges wh-
ich have terminated langua-
ges and science requirements
have experienced sucha drop-
off, and a corresponding in-
crease in fine arts and social
studies courses. it is expec-
ted, however, that enrollment
in Science and language cour-
ses will, in the long term, re-
turn to the level at which they
were prior to the abolition of
requirements.

Some innovations within the
various departments in res-
ponse to the freeruniversity
group independent movement
(I), the chilly wind let in by
the abolition of requirements
(more interdivisional and
interdisciplinary courses, for
instance), and the new fresh
man tutorial system are to be

(continued to page 7)

 

PAGE 2

Swift Compares life

by Laura Snook

This interview is the first in
a 5&8 series about programs
available to Grinnell students
who wish to spend time in an
environment different from
their own. The possibilities
are varied, witharrangements
ranging in length from four
weeks in the summer to a full
academic year, in other schc
0015, cities, or researchareas
in the United States orabroad.

These programs enable Gri-
nnell students to usefacilities
otherwise unavailable to them
(such as the Newberry Libs
rary, or New York Arts), to
do scientiﬁc research on lo-
mtion (including the Wilder
ness Field Station in Minnee
scta, and Introductory Geo-
logy ln the Rocky Mountains),
or to experience the life and
culture of a different part of
the world (Central America,
Japan, or Europe, among oth‘
ers). These opportunities ale
low the student to take part in
learning experiences apart
from the ordinary classroom
academics and to broaden his
comprehension of the world.

Following is a briefdes cripc
(ion of a talk with Dean Swift
about his year in Singapore
(sponsored by Don Ligget, of
the Education Department),
and how and what he got out
of it.

Dean left for the University
of Singapore the end of May of
his sophomore year, which
was the beginningoftheirata-
demic year ending the next
February. He attended at the
Bukit Timah (long Hill) mm-
pus (2500 students) which
holds courses in English. ,

The faculty was interna-
tional, with Chinese teaching
most science courses, Brits
ﬁlters" making up/the English
and Philosophy departments,
and Americans or American?
educated Orientals in charge
of the social sciences. Alth’
ough Dean considered the fac-
ulty to be quite good, they
taught according to the Brit-
ish system, which is archaic
in comparison to the Grinnell
education, and restricts the
student’s intellectual develop-
ment in many ways. Courses
consisted of lectures andhea-
vy reading, with little writing
and no'discussion, all in pre~
paration for a final comprec
hensive examination in each
subject.

There was no contact betw-
een students and faculty out-
side of classes, except for

academic conferences,
cause position and age re-
main as communications bar
riers in the Orient.

Yet more important by far to
the ‘success' of his year ab~
road than academics was'the
experience of contact with the
Oriental culture, which Dean
sees as "dependent entirely
upon the individual."

The student body was made
up chiefly of Chinese, with In-
dians and Malays also. The
national groups tended to keep
to themselves, but since Eng“
lish was their common lang~
uage, Dean was able to meet
students of all nationalities.

He spent two of the three
terms in a University dorm
which exhibited "all the one
maraderie of dorm life any-
where”, although one was com
stantly aware of the separa-
tion of social groups among
the students. Another obvious
difference in outlook was the
students’ acceptance of the
existing system. As a group,
"they were submissive to the
establishment", and the idea
of revolt never occurred to
them despite limitations on
their activities which Ameri-
can students would probably
not tolerate today (no coed
visitation of alcohol in the
residence halls).

Yet to Dean these dissimil-
arities were minor, and he
found the sole barrier betw-
een him and his fellow stud-
ents tobe theirpreconceptions
of stereotype Americans.
Nonetheless, these were even-
tually broken down enough‘for
him to “make some deep frv
iendships with Asians", par-
ticularly among the Indians.

Women at the Universitywe-
re still "very meek and un~
liberated- -the male being doe
minant socially", and there
was less pairing off" than
at Grinnell. Because of this
Dean felt that an Amerimn

woman student at the Univer-
sity would run into difficult—

ies of adjustment that a man
would not. She would have to
fight to overcome the lack of
respect for women as intelli-

DR. DUANE L. TOWN
OPTOMETRIST

PHONE 236-4002
Office Hours: 9 to 12, l to 5
Closed Thursday and
Saturday afternoons

CONTACT LENSES
719 Fifth Avenue

 

 

E

HEADQUARTERS

PERSONALIZE

YOUR CHRISTMAS GIFTS
WITH ENGRAVING

DONE PROMPTLY

MERRY CHRISTMAS

FROM

J OSEPI—IS

JEWELERS swct ”H

m m Amt-m O Grime“, Iowa
THE DIAMOND STORE

CDFI: GIL—T \AIDAPPING

 

In Grinnell, Singapore

gent people as well as th’e St’
ereotype idea of American
women as "surrounded by
mystique-cand easy game.

Dean picked up enough "baa
zaar Malay” (the universal
language in the area) to get
along with the local people,
and was able to expand his
environment to include life
outside the University. He
found the natives intolerant
of American ”freaks" (except
to boost their economy), and
that although some of the best
grass in the world comes from
Singapore, any native smokers
are social outcasts. The rural
dwellers do chew beetle-nuts
for a high, but Dean “found
the taste unbearable, and cou-
ldn‘t chew enough to feel anyc
thing".

Travel also gave Dean a diff
ferent perspective on thearea
outside Singapore. He found
the people most friendly, and
"the hitching was good”, so
during his various vacations
he was able to get as far as
Malaysia, Thailand, Indonesr
is, and India. Some ofthe pho-
tographs he took during these
explorations are now on dis*
play in the Forum Basement.

As well as travel and photo-
graphy, Dean "really got into
Asian food". Singapore is full
of good, cheap restaurants
representing all the resident
ethnic groups, so it was easy

WE HAVE every
thing you need
to make mndles.

ALSO new ideas in
wooden beads for
stringing.

to become an, Oriental gour-
met v and' 'even learn the
names of all the dishes!!"

Another “Extra-curricular
activity" was religion. Thr—
ough his Indian and Chinese
friends, Dean was able to ate
tend various rites and fesii’
vals, very enthusiastically ore
ganized and attended. These
remain an important aspect
of life in the Orient.

Dean summed up his year in
Singapore as having given him
a "feeling for Asia"moreac-
curate than most Westerners
ever have the opportunity to
obtain. His advice to anyone
interested in taking part in the
program is to “come talk to
me about it -- or talk tosome
one else who was there" (John
or Pam Merkle); and to real*
ize that transplanting a small
Grinnell community to Singa»
pore does not enlarge one‘s
perspective, and defeats the
‘whole purpose of the trip.

Gordon E. Brown ofIndianA
ola, Iowa has beenappoint-
ed editor of The Grinnell‘
Magazine as of January 1.
Brown was alumni secre—
tary and director of pubr
lications at Simpson Col-
lege from 1968 to his ap-
pointment here.

 

FRUITCAKE?

for your
Christmas Party

“W
DANISH MAID BAKERY

818 Fourth Avenue

 

"THE FEET”

for those cold
dorm floors

flannel p.j.s in assorted colors and
prints with enclosed, soled feetl

9

 

 

 

938 Main

 

 

 

December 4, 1970

THE SCARLET AND BLACK

PAGE 3

Bowman Says That Experimental Courses Should Be Devised

by lnci Bowman

Recently, Iattendeda confer
ence on the "model univer-
sity”, sponsored by the Dan-
forth Foundation. Although th’
ere were no agreements on
what a university is or should
be, the gathering was an ac
tasion on which various criti-
cisms of higher education
were brought into the open,
thus giving me a chance to
think certain issues over.
Moreover, I am aware of the
current interest at Grinnell in
using group independents as
“experimental" courses. In
some ways, I see definite ad-
vantages in incorporating
more ”experimental" courr
ses in the Grinnell curriculum
and I would like the members
of the college community to
consider the possibility.

It appears that many people
have given up on finding a
suitable definition fora liberal
arts education. Rather, the
tendency is to regard unders
graduate education as ful~
filling or trying to fulfill sev-
eral functions at the same
time. Commonly, the campus
is a place Where one an get
the background necessary to
go to a graduate or profes
sional school for further spe-
cialized training. Secondly,
the college offers general edu-

cation in a traditional sense,
which is intended to provide
the individuals witha means of
coping with the complexities
in life and of being effective
citizens. Finally, there is what
some people call the "baby-
sitting” function ofthe college
for those young people who
are on the campus for various
reasons. Among this group,
one might cite those who do
not have aspirations of climb-
ing up via graduate schools
or who have turned against
middle class values, but still
interested in some kind of
educational experience.

When one views Grinnell in
terms of the above generali-
zations, one would likely ads
mit that the college carries
out its functions well in pre
paring students for graduate
and professional schools, and
even providing them withgen~
eral education in the tradi»
tional sense, But what is the
college doing in meetingsome
student demands which can-
not be fulfilled by traditional
courses? The obvious answer
is, of course, that individual
or group independents have
been instituted in order to fill
this very gap. (At this point,
many critical students admit
that Grinnell is not such a
bad place after all.) However,

 

Season’s
Greetings

POWESHIE

 

—mmmwm

4th & Broad/5m 4 Wait - Erin/tall

 

Molar Bank m A W.»

‘il’hllm BANK

em

are the group independents
being employed satisfactorily
in making the individual an
active member and providing
a group experience, in line
with the desires of some stu-
dents on campus?

Defines ‘Ex erimentol’
P

Before discussing some ad‘
vantages of “experimental"
courses, I mightpoint outwhat
is generally understood by an
"experimental" course and in
what ways it may differ from
a traditional course. However,
this is not by any means a
rigid description, but rather
a heuristic model which may
be used as a guideline.

An "experimental" course
is intended for a group of ins
dividuals with common inter-
est in a subject matter, who
agree to study and come to-
gether to exchange ideas or
share their intellectual ex-
perience. It is expected that
each individual will contri-
bute to the group lain-ring by
coming prepared and partici-
pating in the discussions. Ads
mittedly, the loose structure
of the course makes it very
prone to corruption. In order
to avoid this, each person will
be responsible for preserving
the integrity of the group in
so far as it constitutes "a
community of learning". Thus
the faculty member may or
may not contribute more than
others. The bibliography and
the format of the course may
be determined by the students
and the faculty memberacting
jointly. Such a course is re
garded as being “experimen—
tal" in the sense that it will
be subject to constant evalua—
tion by the group in order to

Povnrrns

Fourth Avenue Fashions

Take home
that gilt

from Poyntor’s

THREE FLOORS
OF FASHION

GIR LS’TEEN
LADIES

FREE
GIFT WRAPPING

 

 

#406 a. new, 6.4mm
Eat a holiday dinner with us

TOM'S

SLONGHORN

“FINE FOOD IN A FRIENDLY WESTERN ATMOSPHERE”

 

meet students' educational
needs. Needless to say, there
will be no letter grades nor
any exams. Although, in gen-
eral, it is expected that ex?
perimental courses willcover
topics net included in the cur
riculum, there is no apparent
reason why some already ex-
isting courses may not be of-
fered as experimental cour~
ses, if the faculty member
and students choose to do so.
The main advantage of "ex~
perimental" courses is the
fact that they will constitute
an alternative form of eduta-
tion. The student will assume
a more active role in the
learning process and will
come to grips with collective
responsibility. I do not intend
to question here the value of
techniques employed in tradi~
tional courses--1earning from
lectures, writing papers, pres
paring for exams. Such tech-
niques may be quite approp-
riate for teaching certain dis‘
ciplines, and obviously are
well suited for preparing stir
dents for more specialized
graduate training. Neverthe‘
less, traditional courses gens
erally give rise to compartr
mentalized knowledge, andthe
idea of sharinga learning ex-
perience is secondary to the
purpose, if it is considered at
all. Therefore, ”experimen-
tal" courses, if carried out
satisfactorily, will provide a
different form of education--
a form which may corres-
pond better to the concept of
an ideal edumtion.

Moreover, wider employ-
ment of "experimental" cour-
ses in the curriculum will
make it possible for the col‘
lege to fulfill rather well
what i take to be one of its
functions; namely, educating
students who are uninterested
in either “making it" in the
system or going through a
process which subjects them
to constant competition and
imparts on them some “pri-
vate" knowledge. However,
the establishment ofthispoint,
whether or not the college
should accommodate such
non—conformist students, ap-
pears to be thorny as it ulti-
mately depends on how one
defines the role of an educa-

tional institution in the soc-
iety.

Let us consider, for the time
being, the conservative View
which denies that educating
nonrconformist students is a
legitimate function of higher'
education. Perhaps the mm<

'pus is not a place for them,

and thus "experimental" cou—
rses have no role in the curri~
culum. If this argument were
tenable, then college should
not admit students whoare not
willing to go through a tradi-
tional process of learning.

If the college were to open
its doors only to those who
are interested in conforming
to the system, then it would
become an institution serving
the needs of the establish
ment. Closing doors to non-
conformist students would in
fact be like sweeping under
the rug the problems that such
students bring to the campus,
which in turn reflectproblems
not generally seen from the
establishment point of view.
If one of the primary goals of
an educational institution is to
serve the society, then the
university must assume the
responsibility of educating a
wider group of individuals with
various interests. Therefore.
the education ofnonr conform-
ist students is as much a fun-
ction of the collegeasprepar-
ing individuals for graduate
specialization and providing
them with general education
in a traditional sense.

When we consider the scene
at Grinnell, it does notappear
to be a rigid institution. The
possibility of takingindepend-
ent courses and the recent
decision of the faculty to drop
the general education require-
ments :indicate the college's
intention to provide students
with an education ﬂexible to
their needs. Why could not we
take one more step and use
group independents as "ex-
perimental" courses? Ifmore
"experimental" courses were
to be included in the curricu-
lum, not only would the col-
lege be responding to the edu-
cational demands ofaparticu‘
lar group ofstudents, butalso,
more importantly, it would be
offering a different form of ‘
educational experience to all.

 

60 DAYS IN EUROPE

Summer 1971
July 1 - August 30

EUROPEAN ART 8. ARCHITECTURE TOUR

20 Day Seminar at Oxford

40 Day Continental Travel
(England, Denmark, Greece, Italy,
France, Holland)

4 hours academic credit

Write to: Dean Robert P. Ashley
Ripon College
Ripon, Wisconsin 54971

 

 

 

THE VERY BEST OF

THE 'GRINNEll HERALD- REGISTER

 

 

PAGE. 4

Rip-offs On The Rise;
Can Attitudes Change?

The incidence of theft on the
Grinnell College campus has
been extremely widespread
this semester. The problem
has been especially evident in
the past month and should be
discussed and solved. Stolen
items range from substantial
sums of cash and books from
the bookstore and library to
various other goods such as
the keys to the newly insmlled
Coke machines, foodfromhall
refrigerators, and records.
Something is vastly wrong
when students cannot trust

The 88th notes with sure
prise and pleasure the vote
of the Senate Wednesday
eliminating funds for the
Supersonic Transport
(SST), one of the most in-
credible boondoggles tobe
proposed in recent years.

The extent of the opposie
tion to SST is underscored
by the concurrence of
Iowa's senators - Republi»
can Jack Miller and Demo
crat Harold Hughes. Is the
anti-ABM vote next?

 

their peers. Using locks on
all the doors and constantly
guarding one‘s personal bee
longings are not anybody's
conception of what a college
atmosphere should promote.

What can be done? Students
should act responsibly enough
toward one another so as to
prevent thievery. When thefts
occur, they should be report-
ed to the Dean of Students
and the Grinnell Police Sta-
tion. These agencies will try
to help victimized students
recover stolen items. If such
action is taken, the people on
campus who are not respect-
ing others' property will prof
1'23ny either be found or sca-
red away from ﬁxture stealing.
The long- range problem will
be solved witha change of at
titude by the students u a new
attitude of community instead
of competition, a respect for
each fellow student's belong-
ings instead of a “rip it off
if you like it" tendency, and
a sense of society instead of
self.

-Student Coor dinutor’s Office

THE SCAR LET AND BLACK ‘

2766 30044 Sdo

December 4, 1970

by Jon Stein

 

 

 

make .HEADS" .

bonanza smears»: ST‘CKTQ m
FR\QTNAD$. ice \Nme
we: LK Gab-r OUR ex cinemas
M. AND ATHLEVLLs.me A%N\T’
Amm- ‘ic Be mugs Amw, so
use cm—rusue To TALK Aegis: egg
6\RLF‘R\tN€>$i Beta, Rm MALEKK;
Lot moh- Kmxg AMVW Hth '
THE-.NI‘RB AU. cs.“- To oer Lbs.

we RA? awn-K

MPLEJJKQ: \NT’sKe FQKQK.

use RAP AN Knew, ooGe,

AND THE. ﬁcvcﬁcNT. league

Rewamcgb Wetteimhusn , so we.

ammo oak 8MB 0N. Gom‘wuNqu

Like Must—,DOPE..N\\DT\¥=, mam,
mecmw WDANYECDQ 9%..
embemm‘s TOO COL_.D.

(M'ﬁ-Ke m.

 

 

ls Phys Ed Budget Unreasonable?

by Molly and John Pepper
Some rather interesting con-
clusions arise from the Cole
Iege’s approved budget for
1971-72, which was discussed
at this Monday's facultymeet~

Keepnews: JC Misses Facts

Dear Editor:
It's not so much that J. C.
' Iabowitz’s criticism of this
year’s social program was a
case of "bitching after the
fact." It’s more a case of
bitching without the facts.
The Social Committee is al-
ways open to criticism, but
we tend to prefer criticism
that is in some way COnSII‘UC‘
tive, and that is voiced to us
directly so we can reply to it
or discuss it. Labowitz’s cri-
ticism is of the markedly unr
helpful "Whatrisrthlsrshit"
variety (or the “what—is‘this-
shit - and — aren't - I - cute -
the - way , I , phrase - it"
variety), and worse than that
it is inaccurate. In addition to
a number of minor inaccurar
cies which I won’t go into now
but will be glad to relate to
anyone who asks me, there is
a major inaccuracy in J.C.'s
representation of this year's
program. I quote: “how come
last year we could get 3.3.,
Pete, Doc, the TSU Torona‘
dos, and severalNorth Lounge
concerts per semester, and
this year we have Big Mama,
Enoch Smoky . . . and only
one or two N.L. jams?” This
year, J.C., We have had Big
Mama, Enoch Smoky, Mike
Seeger, Jackson Browne, the

East River Anthology, the Joe
Henderson Quintet, about five
North Lounge dances, last
Wednesday’s folk concert, and
a Black Cultural Weekendwhc
ich included the Pharaohs (for
whom credit shouldgoto Law-
rence Wright and to the Afro~
American Cultural Affairs
Committee, which paid for
most of it). This weekend Fred
McDowell, who is probably
the best living folk-blues guir
narist and one of the best sin-
gers, will be in the South
Lounge, and there will be a
jam in the N.L. Not too many
big names, granted, but bear
in mind two things: first of
all, the really “big" names
(in other words, the performs
ers that J.C. Labowltz has
heard of) cost a bell ofa lot
of money (last year we had
the good fortune to get both
E. B. King and Pete Seeger at
something like half their reg-
ular prices; nothing like that
has fallen our way this year).
Second of all, it is my belief
that you don't have to be fam-
ous to be good. Imaintain that
the above list containsawhole
lot of fine music. Planned for
next semester are the Fire-
sign Theater, the Impres-
sions, the Alvin Ailey Danc-
ers (who are reputedly outae

Kintner Questions Consistency
And logic 0! loewi’s PE Stand

Dear Sir: .

Q‘l severalocmsions recent:
1y, the students have accused
the faculty of inconsistency in
their treatment of the curri—
culum. The time has come, I

think, to throw those charges
back at the students or per»
haps more accurately, at the
Student Government, provided
that Mr. Loewi was indeed
expressing student opinion at
the faculty meeting last Mon-
day. At that meeting, Mr.
Loewi suggested that the stu-
dents were not unfavorable to
a P.E. requirement even th-
ough he had represented the
students as being solidly op-
posed to academic require-
ments. I fail to see the logic
of his position just as I fail
to see the logicofthefaculty's
vote to deny a bachelor’s den
gree to anyone who failed to
satisfy the P.E. requirement.
I hope that either Mr. Loewl
will clarify his position on
this or that the students them-
selves will do so.

Sincerely,

Philip Kintner

site), and an asryet unspech
fled rock group - the Commit‘
tee is, as Ihave said, open to
suggestions. (In fact, that's
why we squandered $300 on
Enoch Smoky - because so
many people recommended
them to us.)

I would be the first person
to admit that this year's soc-
ial program has been less
than perfect (at least thatpart
of the social program for
which the Social Committee is
responsible. I can‘t speak for
the Music Department, the
Theater Department, or the
hall social chairmen). So was
last year's, so was that of the
year before last, and so, I
imagine, has been every social
program every year since this
college was founded. I, for
one, do not detect a notiwble
decline in either the quality
or the frequency of concerts

(continued to page 7)

ing. The amounts budgetedfor
Physical Education areas fol-
lows:

Men's P.E.
Women's P.E. 41,958
campus Recreation 2,459
Intercollegiate sports 38,000
This yields a total of$153,007
budgeted for Physical Educa-
tion next year. This figure
does not include college oblie
gations of about$l,500,000 for
the new P.E. complex or any
other plant expenses, includ
ing $100,000 for new and re-
furbished playing fields.

This means that Physical
Education outspends every
academic department, inclu-
ding 'the highestrspending,
Biology, which has an alloca-
tion of $150,000. Men's P.E.
on campus alone (i.e., not in-
tercollegiate) outspends l9
academic departments and
programs including all for
eign languages, Mathematics,
Black Studies, etc. Women's
P.E. outspends Classical Lan-
guages, Anthropology, and
six others. Intercollegiate Sp-
orts outspend six academic
fields or otherprograms. Last
year Grinnell spentahout $125
per student on Physical Edu-
mtion, as opposed to $98 per
student on new books for the
library.

$70,370

Nor, it should be noted, are
all ”PhysicalEducation" Cour
rses included in this. Mrs.
Voertman, who teaches mod-
ern dance, is an assistant in
Theater, not in P.E.

Unexpected expenses have
forced a general trimming of
budget demands, largely as a
consequence of unforseen tr-
oubles in the construction of
the new Physiml Education
Complex. Dean Walker spoke
Monday of reductions in the
number of teaching faculty
from the present 111 to about
106 or 107 full-time instruc-
(OIS-

erthermore, there isa gen-
eral tightening up in student
aid funds. At the current buds
geted rate of spending, Phy-
sical Education Spending am-
ounts to abouta fifth of the
amount allocated for student
aid. The amount for men's
on—campus sports is ten times
that allocated for the Black
Studies Program.

Can an institution dedicated,
by its own account, to liberal
and academic Values, really
afford this sort of non-acad-
emic spending? Moreover,
can we afford a PhysicalEdu-
cation requirement which inn
sures the maintenance of sp-
ending at the current level?

Mendenhall:lnitiative Fund OK

To the Editor:

In the October 16 issue ofthe
5&8 there appeared an article
by J. C. Labowitz concerning
the Initiative Fund. I feel J.C.
had several misconceptions
about the fund and I have fine
ally found it within myself to
respond. Die to the lapse me
time, it may be difficult for
a full connection between this
letter and the article to be
made, But perhaps, then, this
letter can serve as a general
clarification of the Initiative
Fund which might be good to
have in itself.

The basic purpose of the hilt
tiative Fund has net always
been the same as it is today.
Created in the 1965- 66 school
year, its original purpose, as
I understand it, was the en—
couragement, among the stu-
dents, of small ”personal"
types of social getetogethers.
Along with the fund was crea-
ted a committee to approve
specific expenditures from
the fund. Guidelines werealso
developed to give the commitr
tee some direction in the fund-
ing policy. Over the next cou-
ple years. the types of events
funded through the Initiative
Fund were expanded to include
such concepts as transporta-
tion to social events in the

area and so on. Its basic pur~
pose, however, of encourag-
ing small group social func*
tions remained the same. The
major change for the Initiative

Rind came two years ago and
with that change the fund was
re~defined and given a new
direction which guides the use
of funds at present. '

The re-definition of the fund
involved an increase in its
size to about $5,500. Import-
antly, most of the increase
came from whathadprevious—
1y gone to individual hallallo-
cations. The hall allocations
were decreased to the old le-
vel of the Initiative Fund, a
total of about $1,800. The re
verse] of theseamounts meant
several things. First, halls
would now have to go to the
Initiative Fund for most of
their social events, because
their hall allocations were no
longer large enough to cover
the costs. Secondly, the range
of events encompassed by the
Initiative Fund wouldnow have
to be expanded to include the
"traditional" types of events
halls had previously spon-
sored for themselves. Finally,
overall the change meant that
money for certain types ofso-
cial events would be centrale
ized to assure better control.

The Initiative Fund Commit-
tee is appointed by S.G.A. and
is given by S.G.A. the respon-
sibility to allocate the fundfor
a broad range ofsocialevents.
A general direction is given to
the fundingpolicybytheS.G.A.
approved guidelines. Probably
the most important aspect of
those guidelines is their em.
phasis on assuring an equit-
able distribution of the funds.

The general outlook of the
present Initiative Fund Come
mittee can probably be sum-
marized like this. The com-
mittee has responsibility to

(continued to page 8)

the Sn lot I. Ilul 5mm NMIDW" at
. Grlnnell collage
Grlnnell, Iowa SDIIZ

n mat-pendent nrwspaperymbllﬂtvdwcl ..
n, imp. awn,...“.ymammmm
Mm, by m cnmu Committrc on
5nd... mummy... sumnmn. m. ,V ,
$8.5» bu school yer. "M

Editor
Business Manager
copy Editor
nature Editor

Greg Butcher

Jll-n Fri-nu

Jlm All

George snybui

Debby McKnight
Merry Weisner,

Sue Slegel.

Sharon Cox

Sports Stall Anonymous
Reporters: Tim PorgEs, John PEPPar.
Mark Sublamm. Jon Sleln, J.C. Lnbewiu,
Jim in, Debby McKnight, LaeAnn Schworix,
Laura smelt, Merry Welsnev, Lynne
09mm, Bob Oulm, Andrea Frey, George
Shyhut, Ann Cussel, in» Paterson, Marilyn
McKetmu, Blll Barnes, Lmrla Hullberg,
Mark Grosser, Kmy Snyder, Den oug-
enbis, Bill Knecht. Run Medvln, curls
pecker, Alex Kurlln

News Edllor
Layout sum

1 l

 

December 4, 19701.4

THE SCARLET AND<BLACK- -«

SGA Falls Into Semester Slump

by Don Dagenais
Since last time news of Sena
ate activities have graced
these pages, the Senate has
been largely inactive due to
increasing pressure of aca-
demic interests (or so they
claim). Two weeks ago the
Senate held a dinner meeting.
Although the discussion was
marked by a lack of complete
seriousness, the Senators did
show some real concern over
die possibilities of student
action involving changes in the

academic structure here.
Ad hoc committees to in~

vestigate various areas of in-
terest were formed. Barry
Zigas and Kit Gage will look
into optional grading, Al Co~
hen and Mike Breed will head
an examination of independent
study, Dave Bensley will lead
the committee on the senior
year, and Ida Gudema and Bill
Kilpatrick will head the group
examining calendar reform.
In the following Tuesday's
meeting Greg Vranicar offer-
ed to look into course evaluac
tion, and the possibility of
publishing a student'written
critique of various courses
and professors. So far little
action has been mken in these
areas, however-presumably
something will be done second

semester.
Despite stiff competition of-

{ered by the production of
Hamlet on the South Lounge
TV, the November 17 meeting
received more response than
practically any other meeting
this year. The entire Social
Coordinating Committee was
on hand to discuss with stud-

ents and Senators the social
programming, this year. The
possibility of having “big
name" bands was the major
topic of discussion. Ed Lee
vine, South Lounge chairman,
noted that such groups cost
at least six or seven thou-
sand dollars, which does pre*
sent a problem of budget lime
itations. Keepnews noted that
negotiations were going on
with several groups (notably
Grateful Dead), but that pri-
ces were going up and that
such groups were generally
hard to deal with because of
their life styles (Jefferson
Airplane, for instance, is

"too high.")

One student had reportedly
suggested to the Committe
that Jefferson Airplane would
be glad to appear here again,
since they gave a concert at
Grinnell before they became
famous and ”got their start
here." Guffaws ensued.

The Committee“ eventually
expressed their opinion that a
more rational social program
is one with small lesser-
known groups with a scattered
variety of styles. There were
no violent objections.

After a week's lapse, the
Senators were back in action
last Tuesday. In a meeting
generally marked by a pro
liferation of yawns, little dis
cussion, and less substantive
action, the Senate virtually
wasted an hour and fifteen
minutes. They didn’t even put
on a good show for the five
students who attended: even
the jokes were worse than

library Enlarges Periodical

Holdings In Downtown location

The downtown periodicals
storage area is now open to
faculty and students from 2 to
5 p.m., Monday through Fric
day. Lomted on the third ﬂ»
00:: of the College Office Buil-
ding at 821 51h Avenue, the
collection contains the lib
rary’s periodiml holdings
prior to 1955.

This action follows the in-
vestigation ofthe Library sub-
committee on security and
accessibility of the library's
collection. The subcommittee
sent a questionnaire to a ran*
dom sampling of faculty and
students, and the responses
to questions about the inacces-
sibility of the older periodi-
cals clearly indicated a need
to open the area and to pro-
vide study room there. The
committee hopes that memb-
ers of the college community
will be able to browse through
volumes instead of being ob-
liged to orderperhaps ten vol-
umes to find thatonly one cone
tains information of use to
them. The move should also
facilitate business at the cir-
culation desk.

Periodicals Bank

Students who need articles
from periodicals not held by
Grinnell are urged to use the
ACM Periodicals Bank.

The Bank contains the com—
bined periodical collections of
the Associated Colleges ofthe
Midwest, and is housed at
Newberry Library in Chicago.
Students may acquire photo»
copies of articles from these
magazines at no cost.

Periodical Bank Holdings,
the list of resources held by
ACM, are available in Burl‘
ing, the Science Library, and
in theScience Seminar Rooms.

When a studentneeds anarti-
cle, he should fill out an In-
terlibrary Loan Form which

can be obtained from the Cir-
culation Desk. Requests are
teletyped immediately to Chi-
cago, and the photocopy is sent
that same day.

Students may also request
resources from Newberry Lie
brary which contains exten-
sive Humanities and History
material.

Students who need further

. help should contact the refer

ence librarian.

usual. Of note, however, is
the fact that Eric Jahn did
bless the group with his ate
tendance, a rare occurrence
this year.

Minor action on severalmin-
or matters was taken. The
SAGA fast this semester, it
was decided, will be held in
benefit of the Pakistan Relief
Fund. Next semester that al-
waysrworthy charity, the Rev.
Martin Luther King Scholarc
ship Fund, will receive the
pennies.

Discussion ensued re a pos-
sible future referendum re-
garding board options. It
seems that some students
(notably the freaks in Confer-
ence House) are either tired
of them good ol' SAGA vit-
tles, or are overconfident in
their own culinary abilities.
At any rate, they wish to be
let out of the SAGA contract
so as to prepare their own
delicacies. This would mean,
however, that board fees for
remaining students would go
up The referendum, there-
fore, will ask students when
ther or not they would mind
letting a few people get by
without taking the board of
fered.

G E T
INVOLVED

mmmurnl

' Eco CONSCIOUSNESS in

downtown Grinnelll United

Food Store shows its concern over phosphate content

of commercial detergents.

(photo by John Pepper)

Preps Claim Grinnell ls Failing

by Amy Siegel.
Sarah Griswold and
Steve Neuberger

Having spent 3 l/Z monthsat
Grinnell College, apredominr
ant image we have is that Grins
nell College is failing in its
ability to properly integrate
our living and learningexpere
iences. Under the current dor-
mitory and academic struc-
ture, students are paying the
college to develop theirtninds
while protecting them from
the process of survival, or
at the very least, selfrdetere
mination. We want more.

Because we feel Grinnell
perpetrates a restrictive pro-
cess which fails to orientstu-
dents towards group learning
and does not create any sort
of dependence between studs
ents, six of us proposed a 16
credit independent last week

which would have encompas-
sed moving offrcampus; with
the intent of improving the
Grinnell experience. Our prof
ject was rejected, as was a
proposal fora co—op lastweek,
and, if proposed, another in-
dependent, Off'mmpusproject
will be rejected within the

next few davs.
Qir prOJect consisted of six

of us moving offecampus and
studying intensively the Conn
cepts of insanity and death as
they pertain to literature, soc~
iology, religion, and psycho-
logy. Each member of the gr-
oup would do the equivalent
to 12716 credit hours of work
and would follow the prescric
bed regulations regarding the
sponsorship of independents.

We felt our project would
have been valuable for the fol-
lowing reasons: 1) Learning
would become a 24 hour a day
process rather than the 4-

Drolt Board Tells New Policy

FROM:

Iowa State Headquarters
Selective Service System

A recent Selective Service
directive extends to a young
man, with a high Random
Sequence Number which will
not be reached during the
year, the right to request the
withdrawal of his deferment,
thereby permitting him to
leave his lottery year in an
available status, and to enter
a lower priority selection gr-
oup on 1 January of the suce
ceeding year. The only defer-
ments which may be relin-
quished are for students, and
occupational, agricultural,
paternity and hardship.

If a registrant retains his
deferment through his lottery
year he will be exposed to
the lOttery in theyearhe loses
his deferment and returns to
a class available for service.
He will then be considered
for induction along with men
with the same lottery number
of that year.

A Random Sequence Number
is considered as reachedwhen
a noncvolunteer registrant is
issued an Order to Report for
Induction by his local board,
and all other registrants in
his local board with that or a
lower number are likewise
considered as being reached.

Due to variances in dates of
birth, enlistment, deferment,
etc., the availability of num-
bers will vary between Selecr
tive Service Local Boards,
and all boards will not have
the same highest reached
number. The highest number
to be reached by a localboard
in Iowa is estimated to be 190
in 1970.

The registrant with a 1970
lottery number who is defers
red and has a reached num-
ber may wish to continue his
deferment and become ex~
posed to the lottery at the
expiration of his deferment.
Should he holda high Random
Selection Sequence Number
which may not be reached for
induction by his local board
during the current lottery
year, he may request,inwrit-
ing, that his local board an-
cel his deferment and classi-
fy him in 1AA, as Available
for Induction. When a regis-
trant leaves a lottery year in
Class I A, and his number is

not reached byhis localboard,
he will be placed in a lower

priority selection group on
January 1 of the subsequent
year.

If he is deferred, or other
wise not available for induc-
tion, and reaches age Zéwith'
out being issued an Order to

Report for Induction before
his 26th birthday, he will be
placed in a lower group for
seleCtion, and will nor be callv
ed unless the demand for mane
power is increased.

A registrant who is classic
fled in an available Classifi-
cation, andhasa reached numc
ber but has not been issued
an Order to Report for Induce
tion, will be carried over into
the following year for three
months. If he is notneeded for
induction on the March call
of that yearhe will be removed
from the Extended Priority
Selection Group and placed in
the Second Priority Selection
Group with the exception that
any member who would have
been ordered to report for in~
duction to fill the last call of
the first quarter of the year,
but could not be issued an
Order because of regulatory
or statutory procedures, shall
remain in the Extended Priors
ity Selection Group and be or-
dered to report for induction
as soon as practicable. The
current year's Random selecV
ted numbers are considered
the First Priority Selection
Group through that calendar
year.

When a call is filled for the

(continued to page 6)

classes/week process we feel
it is currently. 2) We would
form a more accurate repre
sentation of society based up-
on a mutual dependency be»
tween students - totally lack-
ing outside the classroom at

Grinnell. 3) Most importantly,
because we would function as
a group, the social and intel-
lectual aspects of living and
learning would become one;
whereas under the current
structure of Grinnell there is ~"
absolutely no connection be-
tween the two.

After a 35 minute conference
with Bankers WallandWalker,
it was made explicitly clear
to us, that while our propOsal
was legitimate ”intellect-
ually," we were‘ rejected as a
threat which might encourage
other students to followa sim—
ilar course and transitively
jeopardize the current Grin-
nell structure, Banker Walker
saved Banker Wall’s day by
pointing out a rule regarding
moving off-campus, and that
was that.

Banker Wall emphasized that
as long as Grinnell College
functioned under its current
economic structure, projects
such as ours were simply unc
workable. Grinnell College,
like so many educational in-
stltuuonys in this country, is
having rather momentous fin-
ancial problems these days.
Consequently, the college
feels it is necessary to refuse
certain demands which might
upset the present structure
and result in the college 105'
ing money.

This brings forth a number
of queStions, the primary one
being the purpose of the col-
lege. It would seem, from what
we have been told ofeducation,
that school is where one goes
to learn things to make
her/him more capable ofdoing
any number of things. It would
also seem then,thatthe school
would be willing to change if
its students felt they were no
longer learning.

However, we wonder ifthis is
actually the true purpose of
Grinnell College, since it
seems more interested in
keeping itself alive than pro
viding its students withan edu-
cation which educates them.

(continued to page 7)

 

PAGE 6 THE SCARLET AND BLACK December 4, 1970

7"

I’E Complex To Blame For Deficit

(continued from page 1)

in general institutional and
public relations costs. Plant
maintenance costs were about
the median, and our library
expenditures were close to
the bottom.

The question everyone is
asking is, of course, what is
going to be cut7W'hile theans-
wer is primarily up to the

_Budget Priority Planning Cor
mmittee which willmskemost
of its decisions in January,
Walker mentioned some ofthe
vulnerable areas to the faculty
at Monday afternoon's budget
briefing. Primary areas men-
tioned by Walker include aca~
demic equipment (except in the
sciences, which is covered by
a grant), staffmembers,stud-
ent services, financial aidand
concert series. Already cut
this year were faculty mem»
bers, student services,mm~
pus programs (theater prog-
rams, PPPE. art acquisitions
and international studies) and
placement and financial aid.
Other primary areas ofatmck
must include thephysicaledu-
cation budget and general ad-
ministrative and maintenance
expenses.

Ultimately the blame for the
entire austerityprogram must
return to the Plant Fund Der
ficit. The following table will
show from where the deficit

mine:
Expenditures

Phys. so. complex

Book stats

ARM renovations

Other projects, Improvements

\thletIc fields

Debt service

Total

$2,550,000
71,000
osnmu
65mm)
mum
219,000
$3.7u4,0uo
Income
Fed. gnu! (tot complex)
oiits
Punt Fund Investment Sale
Total

slutuou
359nm
362nm
si,zai,uuu

52,473.00u
mmu
5i .3su.uuu

Debi

Minus long term loan (an yrs)
itttttteainte ﬂab! '

The physical education com-
plex is costingthe college$l.l
million immediately and $2
million in the long run. The
total deficit is $1.5 million.
Therefore, if the physical ed-
ucation complex had not been
built, the total debt would be
$400,000. Nevertheless, Wal-'
ker asserts that the trustees
believe the complex is a wise
investment (due to the federal
grant and loan) and that they

SWEDE’S
LAUNDRY

236 - 6072

812 COMMERCIAL

hool or typewriter supplies

would probably make the same
decision to build today.

The final question that re-
mains is whether the col-
lege's existence is threatened
by the current financial cri~
sis. That problem mu be ap—
proached from two angles.
First of all, from the "no"
side:

The college's endowment is
currently $13.5 million (plus
the value of the dormitories,
which are no longer being in-
cluded). This is smaller than
that of Oberlin, Swarthmore,
Carleton, Macalester andilé-
wrence but probably equal to
or considerably larger than

Kissiine Authors Tennyson Book

James D. Kissane,professor
of English, is the author ofa
major new work on the poetry
of Tennyson.

Entitled AlfredTennyson, the
book is a critimlstudy cover-
ing the full range of thepoet's
work. The volumeispublished
as part of the ’I‘wayne English
Authors Series comprisingst-
udies of individual English
authors.

Kissane, chairman ofthe Ens
glish Department and the Hu-
manities Division has organ—

New Driiﬂ Rules

(continued from page 5)

first month of each new year,

and for the remaining months

of that lottery year, the folo
lowing priorities will prevail:

1.. Men postponed from a
prior call.

2. Volunteers for induction.

3, Extended Priority Selec-
tion Group - lowest avail-
able Random Selection
Number first.

4. First Priority Selection
Group , lowest available
Random Selection Number
first.

5. Second and successive re
duced Priority Selection
Group A lowest Random
Selection Number first.

6. New 19 year olds of that
year » oldest first.

7. 26-35 year olds - young-
est first.

8. 18 1/2 - 19 year olds -
oldest first.

 

GRINIIELL OFFICE SUPPLY

ACRCES FROM THE POST OFFICE

 

the rest of the ACM schools.
The ‘Plant Fund Deficit can
probably be repaid within five
years if anywhere nearly the
current effort is made and
capital improvements are kept
at a minimum.

However, at a symposium for
educators at Williams Col»
lege, one of the main speakers
cited three factors which will
decide which small schools
will eventually survive. They
are: 1) high academic qual—
ity; Z) a national reputation;
and 3) a $25 million endowe
ment. The last figure would
make Grinnell half the size L
it should be to survive. 1
Robert L. Williams, director of the Black Studies
Program and professor of psychology at Washington
University, gave the opening speech for the Black

Cultural Weekend here November 20.

ized the book around the three (photo by John Pepper}

major types of Tennyson's
poems “ lyric, verse narrar
tive, and dramatic. _

According to the publisher’s
description, Kissane's meth-
od "provides a useful frame
work for surveying the entire
range of Tennyson's work."
in this effort, the book “at
tains both breadth andbalance
in examining Tennyson's ex-
tensive and many-sided adi-
ievement" and provides “a
lucid tracing of Tennyson’s
literary reputation and an as
sessment of his merits and
deficiencies."

Cerauthor (with S. P. Zimer
and M. M. Liberman) of A
Preface to Literary Analysis
and The Practice of Criti-
cism (beth published by Scott
Foresman), Kissane is the
author of scholarly articles
on a variety of 19th-century
subjects, including Victorian
mythology, Jane Austen, Wil-
liam Wordsworth, Herman
Melville, and Sherlock Hol-
mes.

WE’RE EXPECTING

an! A» AIR HOLIDAY
Till-S SEASON

dam, tau/w [1444/
GRINNELL

TIRAVH Cf/Wfﬂ

IIIIII 51h AVE /

AND

JABKETS

FIRST QUALITY, FEW IMPERFECTS AND IRREGULARS
ALL AT WHOLESALE PRICES OR LESS

HOURS
MONDAY..........Ip.m.~9p.m.

TUES-THURS. . . . . . . I p.m. - 5 p.m.
SATURDAY . . . . . . . .9 cl.m. - 12 a.m.

Glove and Jacket Sales

811 Fifth Avenue

 

 

 

I-ecemer ‘

Dean of the College Joseph
Wall, whose new book on An-
drew Carnegie is winning ex*
cellent reviews throughout the
country, has been accorded a
major honor in recognition of
his achievements in the field
of American history.

Dean Wall, Parker Frofesr
sor of History here, was in-
ducted into the highly select
Society of American Histort
ians on November 5 in New
York.

Membership in the Society,
now standing at about 200, is
by invitation only and is lim-
ited to authors whosewritings
in American historyhaveachr
ieved literary distinction. An
earlier book by Dean Wall --
“Henry Watterson: Reconst-
ructed Rebel" *- was, like the
Carnegie work, cited for ex
cellence in historical writing.

Founded in 1939 by prizes
winning historian Allan Neva
ins, the Society initiated Am-
erimn Heritage, highrquality
historical magazine, in coop-
eration with the American Ass
sociation for State and Local
History. Excerpts from Dean
Wall’s book on Carnegie ape

When you know
it’s for keeps

Honors Wall For Book

peared in the magazine'sjune
and October issues of this
year.

Curriculum Changes

(continued from page 1)
locked for in the comingmon-
ths, at least in the planning

stage.

Some indication of the probe
able decrease in the attends
ance of language courses has
been given this year, as, in
anticipation of the abolition,
enrollment fell approximate-
ly 25% in French and 12% in
Spanish. Russian was the only
language to increase its en-
rollment during the current

56111651012
Leggett’s address to the fac»

ulty Monday should prove in-
teresting. Students are en~
couraged to attend. Just about
all we can do now is grow.
If all that happens now is the
shrinkage of some unpopular
departments and the corres—
ponding growth of others, the
abolition of requirements will
have failed its potential. The
fulfillment of that potential
should maintain the Big Show
as the best show in town.

sown

 

Happily, all yourspeolal moments logetherwill be
symbolized forever by your engagement and
wedding rings. (l the name. Keepsake is in the
ring and on the tag. you are assured ol line quallly
and lasting satislaclicn. The engagement
dlamond is ﬂawless, otsuparb color. and precise
cut. Your Keepsake Jeweler has a selection of
many lovely styles, Ho' 'n the yellow

pages under "Jewelers."

ngpsake°

usalnsnsn mmonu mass

Wimslwwlw

,.._...___

m... A r. Medan.

___________ 'I

Inow ro PLAN voun ENGAGEMENT AND wronlNal

m..- land r... m use Mann, “puma v... Emu...“ mi wmm -

"a an
I u mg.

In...
I

I m...

a. loldv, a...» or w. 1k. Alla, m. m. n... to am. a: benull .l
an Kasai-La ml at run prize .

|
ml

| a~—_.___.c~

 

m.

AS THE END

2‘
of the semester approach-

es, two students demonstrate differing
philosophies of preparing for final.
relaxation and release oftensions versus
last minute cramming.

Keepnews Attacks JC

(continued from page 4)

this year. And Idon’tthlnkl’m
particularly prejuduccd; last
year I was the Concerts Ch-
airman.

Maybe people like J.C. Labo-
witz should start going tomore
events and basing their Crilit
cisms on the levelofthe music
rather than on the prestige of
the performers’ names. I’ve
known J.C. since my freshman
year, when he lived next door
to Gary Giddins, then Social
Coordinator, ‘and spent a good
deal of time complainingabout
the social program. Perhaps
he's justa chroniccomplain-
er. At any rate, I wish he'd
talk to me personally, or to

anyone on my committee,
about the social program. But
then maybe J.C.'s primary
concern is to show the world
how clever he is at turning a
phrase. It's hard to tell.

As Social Coordinator, let
me say once more, Iwelcome
any and all criticisms and
suggestions with open arms.
In the future I hope they will
be constructive and based on
facts. Ialso hope tohear them
spoken to my face, and not

have them slung at me from'

the pages of the 5&8 - no

matter how facile and witty

the prose.

Yours in the spirit of good,

clean, healthy entertainment,
Peter Keepnews

Make your travel plans early

When you're ready to travel, we're ready to take you

[hEIE‘tcheaPEI and faster!

now. Don't wait.

To or from Des Moines:
39217-3 people or less
$6 per perso ~74 people or less

Reserve one of our cabs

 

COURTESY CAB-

236-3333 or 236* 7565
Grinnell

(photos by Marty Sachs)

EroshmenKnock
Restrictive life

At Grinnell

(continued from page 5)

So the question is this: is it
more important for something
to survive than to have value
for the people involved with
it? (or, in other words, is the
primary purpose of Grinnell
College to stay alive or to
give its students something
worthwhile, even ifthis means
going out of business or dras-
tically changing its way of
life?).

The current situation is not
going to change until students
realize they are responsible
to each other and together can
make the Grinnell gamea bet
ter one. Grinnell mnnot con
tinue to separate the mindand
body or the intellectual and .
social by relying on its budget.
0f major concern to students
is Saga. If 150- 200 ofus simply
withheld money for Saga in our
second semester checks, the
school would be forced to ab-
sorb the loss and change. The
same goes for B&G and the
library shaft.

Students who believe in inte-
grating living and learningare
going to have to havean option
by which they can attain any
d e sir e d responsibilities.
Let’s learn from each other
and give Grinnell back to its
real trustees; the students.

 

 

KRAMER JEWELRY

901 MAIN STREET
GRINNELL, IOWA 50112

 

Grinnell State Bank

814 FOURTH AVENUE

 

 

 

 

PAGE 8

liberman Work
On Porter Published

GRINNELL, IA. -— "Katherr
ine Anne Porter’s Fiction," a
critical study by M.M. Liber-
man, professor of English at
Grinnell College, is sched-
uled for winter publication by
Wayne University Press, De—
troit.

The volume will be distribu-
ted simultaneously in Canada
by Copp-Clark, Toronto.

Prof. Liberman, a member
of the Grinnell faculty since
1960, is the author of "Magr
got and Worm," a collection
of stories published last fall
by the Cummington Press,
West Branch.

He is co-author of "A Mad
ern Lexicon of Literary
Terms" and “A Preface to
Literary Analysis,"andis co-
editor of ”The Practice of
Criticism.”

The Publications Com-
mittee is soliciting applir
cations for the position of
literary editor of theScar-
let and Black for second
semester. Duties will in-
clude producing two or
three four‘page supple-
ments to 5&B. The position
will be salaried. Applica-
tions are due in Mr. Jor-
dan's post office box by

December 9.

in“
«1‘

EGAD!
let BO know

how you’re going to go

GREYHOUND

236-5122
Buy tickets early

(“'5‘
n\t 0“

COLD FEET?

lADlES SNOW

I®®if©

large selection
all heights-colors-sizes

Brown’s Shoe Store

THE ONLY SHOE STORE ON MAIN STREET

“what ifa keen ofa lean wind flays

p BLA
‘ it; i '

t .

screaming hills with sleet and snow"
- -e.e. cummings

in V , 1 ‘/
(phOto by Marty Sachs)

Ecological Pop Machines Come To Grinnell

Remember how, once upon a
time (last year), Grinnellstu-
dents enjoyed the luscious fla-
vors of soft drinks from mm-
pus pop machines? But then
came increasedvandalism and
ecological awareness, and re
member how the Senate banned
those evil machines with their
non- decomposable cans?

Well, weep no longer, for
those pop machines have re-
turned once again _, but this
time with new, handy, return‘
able bottles instead of cans.

Bottles are more ecologicr
ally sound than cans; for cans,
in the words of LEAP Direc-
tor Granville Smith, “just go
into a land fill somewhere.”
Battles, however, can be re-
cycled and used repeatedly.
The Foreign Student Board
will, as before, receive the

 

profits from said machines,
to be used for such things as
providing scholarships and
transpormtion expenses for
foreign students, as well as
funding the various activities
of the Board.

The machines are located in
six places on campus: the
Loose laundry room, in the
South Campus loggia near the
reception center, Gardner
lounge, Cowles hall, the north
end of Langan pit, and in
Younker hall. The flavor sel»
actions are subject to change
pending student reaction.
There are empty bottle racks
on each floor, into which stu-
dents will hODefully place all

empty bottles. Several times
a week these cases will be
emptied and returned to the
floor.

The cooperation of all stud-
ents is necessary in this ens
deavor, for the expense of the
bottles is such that the Board
will lose money if many ofthe
bottles are not recycled. If
too many bottles are lost or
not returned, the financial
burden may necessitate re-
moval of the machines. The
Foreign Student Board antic
cipates, however, that no such
problems will develop, and
CocarCola and Grinnell can
live in peace and harmony.

December 4, 1970

Orchgstra Plans:

Concerts, Credits

The Grinnell College orchr
estra, this year under the dir-
ection of David Wooldridge,
has given two concerts so far
this year. Two more concerts,
featuring soloists from the
Francesco Trio, are planned
for next semester.

Earlier in the year the orch-
estra elected a six-member
committee whichhas been dis
cussing such things as possi—
ble repertoire selections for
the concerts and the possibir
lity of raising the amount of
credits given for participa‘
tion in the orchestra. Pre-
sently only one creditperyear
is given; the committee hopes
to have this raised to two a
semester, pending future dis-
cussions with the Administra-
tion and the Faculty. This,
Wooldridge feels, would help
alleviate one of the major
problems the orchestra has
had this year -- lack of at-
tendance at rehearsals. Ac-
cording to Wooldridge, ”an
orchestra must be a team 7*
and any missing member con-
stitutes a real problem."

In a recent meeting the com-
mittee considered the various
possibilities for pieces to be
played on the remaining con~
certs. On February 20, the
Orchestra will feature David
Abel, violinist, playing a
Beethoven violin concerto.
The April 17 concert will
feature Nathan Schwartz at
the piano. The orchestra will
also play some pieces by
Wooldridge himself on one of
those concerts, and is plan-
ning to play Debussy's "Afr
ternoon of a Faun," since a
member of the music depart-
ment, who is now on leave,
dared the orchestra to play
it, claiming that they could
never be capable of handling
it.

Ravi Slronltor To Appear At Cornell December 7

Ravi Shankar, India's sitar
virtuoso and composer, will
present a concert at Cornell
College's King Chapel Mon-
day (Dec 7) at 8:15 p.rn. Ace
companying him will be Alla
Rakha playing the tabla (dou—
ble drums) and Kamala Char
kravarty on the mmboura (st-
ringed dronc instrument).

Tickets are $ apiece, and
may be purchased at the Corr
nell business office.

Born in Benares, India, in
1920, Shankar devoted seven
years to the intense study of
the sitar. Then, at the age of
25, he set out to disseminate
Indian classical music to the
people of other cultures. He
has found an audience in Eu-
rope, the Far East and the

United Staes, and has come
to be regarded as a sort of
musical guru to American lis-
teners.

Shankar plays the classical
Indian music known as "Raga
Sangeet," which can be traced
back at least two thousand
years. The ray is a melodic
form on which the music is
based; there are thousands of
ragas built on 72 scales. A
performer improvises on a
chosen raga in any manner
and as long as he wants to.
The sitar, the most popular
stringed instrument of India,
has existed in its present form
for approximately 700 years.
It is fashioned from a seasonr
ed gourd and teakwood, with
six or seven main playing
strings and 13 sympathetic

 

 

Share MW. Life

with a COMMUNITY of CONCERNED and
FRAYERFUL men involved with youth.

For information about the

BROTHERS

OF HOLY

CROSS write to:
Bro. Robert Fillmore

Basil Hall

Notre Dame, Indiana 46556

ON THE lZlh DAY OF

CHRISTMAS MY TRUE
LOVE GAVE TO ME . . .

r 12
HRVANOS
PIZZASM

236-6222

7

 

resonating strings.

Although a traditionalist,
Shankar has also experimenr
ted in the creative fields as
a composer of orchestral,ba—
llet and film music.

Initiative Fund

(continued from page 4)

see that the fund is used in
accordance with the rules of
the College and more widely,
general civil law. The Com-
mittee also has a responsibi~
lity to the students to see that
as many as possible get a
chance touse the fund. Finally,
within the range of these lim'
its imposed on the Commit-
tee, there are a wide number
of events fundahle. It is the
policy of the Committee to en‘
courage "innovative" types
of events but it is apparent
that the fund is meant to in-
clude the more traditional ty~
pes of activities too, simply
on the basis of the fund’s his-
tory in recent years. In fact,
the present guidelines devel-
oped by “Doug Mendenhall
and the gang" and later ape
proved by S.G.A. are, I think,
based generally on this dev-
elopment of the fund through
the years, as the Committee
saw it. Hopefully, in light of
this, most people an find the
guidelines and general policy
of the Initiative Fund Com-
mittee acceptable. Contrary
to a widely held opinion, the
Initiative Fund committee
isn't out to screw the world!
Doug Mendenhall

Initiative Fund Committee
Chairman

 

December 4, 1970

THE SCAR LET AND BLACK

Multi-faceted Poet Presents Work

by Merry Wiesner

"Know your blaclmess", the
title of one ofCaroly-n M. Rod-
gers' poems, seems to be the
theme of most of her poetry,
which she read at a meeting
on Wednesday. Though laced
with violence and bitterly ana
ti-white, her works let humor
and love shine through.

Her poetry deals mainlywith
her relationships with other
people - her mother, friends,
relatives, and blacks in gen
eral. The audience of about
15!) responded most favorably
to her two love poems, as the
whiteness of its skin left a
rather uneasy feeling after
some of her works.

Miss Rodgers played some
interesting adaptations of her
poetry backed by music, with
a Trinidadian steel drum, an
elephant tusk flute, and an
African chant lending unusual
color to her works.

She read mainly from her two
volumes of poetry, Paper Soul
and Songs of a Blackbird:
(from “I Have Been Asked to
Write A Poem on Vietnam")

"No black man or Negro sh-
ould fight the honkies war
“Cause every time we kill a
Vietnamese
We widen the crack in our own
asses
For the honky to kick his foot
through."

(about a black cop living near
her)

"Some fairy threw tar over

him
And he has been trying ever

since
To find something to presto
black- of "

Besides her two volumes of
poetry, Miss Rodgers has
published Two Love Raps, a
foldover, and has several
works in progress, one ofwh-
ich is a book on black literary

Haas Counsels Diverse Areas:
Draft, Crisis Center, Marriage

by Marilyn McK enno

How does Dennis Haas, col-
lege chaplain at Grinnell, View
his role here7 In no way con-
fining himself to the role of
religious counselor alone. he
acts to meet student needs in
many diversified counseling
areas, as well as in the cap-
acities of chaplain and teach-
er.

As a counselor, Haasiswill-
ing to discuss problems peo-
ple are facing, whether rela-
ted to religion or not. He ex
pressed concern over the pos-
sibility that some people might
feel that they must be ortho'
doxly religious in order to
talk to him and stressed that
this, of course, was not the
case. As well as general cou-
nseling, Haas is involved in
many specific counseling
areas.

As a member of the Iowa
Clergy Consultation Service,
Haas is qualified to counsel
persons concerning problems
of pregnancy, adoption, and
abortion. The aim of the ser-
vice is to provide the person
involved with all the accurate
information necessary to fa ci-
litate the wisest possible chr
oice in light of the situation
and the problem. While the

counselor gives conscientious
guidance, he will not make
the decisions for the coun-
selee. He will try to assist
the person in applying his or
her own ethical- religious con-
victions and beliefs with hu-
mane responsibility.

Having been involved in draft
counseling foriseveral years,
Haas now works in conjunction
with the newlycformed Grin-
nell Draft Information Cen-
ter. concentrating on quest-
ions concerning conscientious
objection. Marriage counsel-
ing and vocational counseling
for those considering a reli-
giously- orientated occupation
are two other counseling are
eas in which Haas is active.‘

Considering group counsel-
ing to be an effective means
of help in specific situations,
Haas acts as a resource per-
son to a variety of groups:
the inter-personal relation-
ship groups, the Revolving
Door staff, groups on worship
and others.

It would seem that the chap-
lain, like many others in the
counseling program at Grin-
nell, is an individual capable
of dealing with a variety of
student needs with the empha-
sis on each person asa unique
individual.

Dennis Haas performs a protean role as a counselor
with various campus agencies.

(Photo by Marty Sachs)

criticism. She has been pub-
lishEd in ”Black World" (for-
merly "Negro Digest"),

“Journal of Black Poetry",
"Milwaukee Courier", ”Na-
tion", jump Bad Anthology,
We Speak as Liberators, Bl-
ack Qitloud, New Negro Voi-
ces, and others. She current-
ly reviews books for “Black
World" and "Nation".

She was winner of the first
Conrad Kent Rivers writing
Award in 1968, and this year
won the Poet Laureate Aw-
ard of the Society of Midland
Authors and received a nat-
ional endowment of the Hum-
anities and Arts Award.

She is a founding member of
the Organization ofBlack Am-
erican Culture and the Gwen-
dolyn Brooks Writers Work-
shop. She has mught Black Li-
terature at Columbia College
and the University of Wash
ington and has conducted var-
ious seminars on her essays
concerning the criticism of
Black Literature at campuses
including Knox, Oberlin and
Grinnell.

w , .
Ro gers

~ Carolyn .

it

generates a feeling of both love

and hatred through her poetry and personal interpre-

tations.

(Photo by Marty Sachs)

Jag Culprits Reveal Names

Dear Sir,

In regard to your jag contest
. . . we wish to reporta fait
accompli jag. Ask anyone at
Conference House or anything
else near there about the mys-
terious laughter Mondaymor-
ning, Nov. 23 (starting at 2
AM).

Otis evening Bob and Dave
were talking about jags, and
the Goodnow Tower speakers
Elma up as a prime target.
But how to get to them . . . and
what to do once we found them.
After contemplating broad-
mating Hendrix, Firesigu
Theatre, and The Mothers,we
decided that nothing couldbe
funnier than laughter. Andwho
has a more obnoxious laugh
than Tiny Tim? Unfortunately
Tim's laugh (the recorded
version) lasts only 20 seconds.
The only solution was to play
it over and over 150 times or
so on tape.

Sooooo . . . . .having decided
upon the ultimately absurd
jag, we had to tackle the prob-
lem of how to pull it off.

A short talk with an unsus-
pecting psychology professor
revealed that the controls for
the speakers were in the cha—
pel. The problem wasnow how
to get to the controls in the
dead of night. After slyly tam»
pering with the lock on one of
the seldom used (and seldom
unlocked) doors to the chapel,

we managed to get in at i am.

Having recruited Paul, an
electronics freak, to figure
out the technical Fringe, the
engineering became but a tri-
fle. We exposed the master
controls and avoided tamper-
ing with the lock (so not to
damage equipment as we have
implicit respect for all col-
lege property). Paul connected
the tape-recorder output to
the phonograph input of the
controls while Bob worked on
a lock making access to the
control room impossible by
any but the three idiots invol‘
ved. This was done by putting
a metal strap on the door and
securing it with our ownhard-
ened steel look. In the mean-
time, Dave, through a series
of barricades made the out»
side entrance to the room
impassible, thus totally seal-
ing the room. After numerous
teats and failures we got the
rapes going through the speak‘
ers (a five minute delay was
on the tape to give us time to
get away).

The volume was up so high
that our own testsounds (some
rather soft recorded feedback)
sounded like a train whistle
coming at us (nooooo shitllll).
Unfortunately, only minutes
after the laughing, which folv
lowed a Procol Harum song
to wake up by and a goodmor-
ning wish from Dave and Bob.

a fuse blew. We laid low for a
few minutes only to return to
trace the problem. After an
expedition to get new fuses,
we started again, this time
only at half volume so not to
destroy our new, lower amp-
erage fuses.

First to arrive on the scene,
cursing vociferously, was
Steve Mannheimer. He shin-
nied up the fire escape, in
search of the source of the
hilarious laughter coming
from the speakers, only to
find all the doors to the tower
locked, as the operation was
controlled from afar. After
several other onlookers gath-
ered, and a member of the
local constabulary arrived on
the scene, a EStG man, aim-
lessly walking about campus,
let the excited mob into Good-
now, and then to the tower
above. Bob and Dave stayed
on the scene under the guise
of innocent bystanders, egg~
ing on the group to lynching
the perpetrators of this foul
deed. (Paul had returned to
his room to study his Phy-
sics).

To the collective dismay of
the group that had entered
Goodnow, nothing was to be
found in the tower but cob-
webs, squeaky doors and ob-
noxious laughter. In a flash

(continued to page 12)

Freaks Moot To Plan Experimental College;
Hope To Expand Indopondont Proiett Program

by Bill Knecht

Henry Scheff, Toni Brand-
mill, and a couple of dozen
other hippie wierdo freaks
met Monday night promptly at
a few minutes after 9:00 to
formulate another assault on
our cherished Grinnell way of
life.

In spite of the Free Univer-
sity fiasco v Grinnell’sans-
war to the Tet offensive ~- the
freak contingent agin dis-
played its remarkable cap'
acity to bounce back. Having
learned a bitter lesson about
educational motivation, the
stalwarts sought refuge in the
teachings of the Chairman,
who once remarkedsomething
about flies and honey as op-
posed to files and vinegar.
Clad anew in the armor of
righteousness, they forged the
bright and shining concept of
the Experimental College.

Monday's meeting was the
first in a hopeful series de-
signed to draw support for
and to crystallize the concept
of what an Experimental Col<
lege is and what it is sup-
posed to accomplish.

Despite the chaff of speci-
ficity people seemed obsces-
sed with, a grain or two of
generality stood out thatnight.
It seems that ExCol repres-
ents an extension and refine-
ment of Grinnell's already—
existent independent-project
programs. These programs,
as they exist today, are lar-
gely one-student operations
which suffer from the lack of
progressive community spirit
and the limitations of single-
student capabilities for re‘
search. Apparently, this new
program is going to be an at
tempt to get the lead out ofthe
Grinnell Experience by re-

structuring the idea of the in-
dependent-project into some‘
thing alive and refreshing.
Although the talk is still in
the neonatal stage, ideas of
eight and twelve-credit pro-
jects were being kicked ar-
ound. This is a pretty heavy
concept and nothing like what
most of us are used to. Whe-
ther or not Grinnell kickers
can adapt to the kind of total-
involvement experience these
people are talking about is
what is running around now In
peoples“ minds. Considering
this year's atmosphere ofdis»
illusionrnent with educational
systems in general, the idea .
ought to get a lot of thought
by those of us who feel a little
turned off by the small-Mid-
western-liberaltarts-college
thing.

(continued to page 12)

 

; .‘.L:E 10

IMS Reviewed

It was a great week for lM's
last week. Read continues to
lead the league with a 33>3
record, but Clark slipped to
third as the Profs continue to
rally as the end of the semesr
ter draws near. They are in
second with a 23-7 record.
The Smithies are in fourth,
Westites in fifth,andthe Loose
lovelies amass in sixth. East
leads the league from the
bottom side with an 0- 33 re-
cord. The participation has
increased a great deal, the
1M heads report, as the num-
ber of forfeits is decreasing.

1M Bowling was the highlight
of the year as the one‘day
season saw Clark take the
team championship with 2,136
pins. Second place was Cow-
les, third Haines. Members of
the winning team were Striker
Perolli, Splits Schoene, Gut
ters labowitz, Turkey Dicks,
and Spares Gordon. The indi—
vidual three-gme total win-
ner was Pirolll, with a 521
total. Second place was
Smith's Wheat, 509.Thirdwas

Cowle's (hishing in a tie with
Clark's Gordon at 504. Read's
Hanse was fifth, Smith's Gil-
bert was sixth, Cowles' Stein
eight, West's Horwitz was
ninth, and Haines’ Buchanan
was tenth.

The high game was rolled by
Al Wheat, 194. The low was
Horowity of Haines, 69.

This tourney was labeled a
success as all but two teams
were of a full contingent. 0C
did not show as they were off-
mmpus somewhere else. The
only complaint was that ‘in
some halls more peoplewanb
ed to play but the teams were
full. The DA officials regretted
this and wish they would have
been made aware of this be-
fore the tournament.

'N Swimming started last
Sunday. My only complaint
might be -- how about some
events for nonrswimmers7
Perhaps a P] relay7 Anyway,
good luck to all the entrants,
and let's fire up over in East

113‘“ —- The c. Kid

JD’S RESTAURANT
922- 1/2 Main

Mom-Sat. S to lo p.m.

Sunday-Noon to it) p.m.

GlASSES
Made and Repaired
in Our Laboratory

Contact lenses

Ca ses a nd
Solutions

Eyes Examined
Phone 236-3979

EJ. Jonson, 0.0.
OPTOM ETRIST

Across from Post Office
Closed Thursday p.m.
and Sat. p.m.

THE SCARLET AND BLACK

BB Toom looks For Better Year

This year looks to be rather

a better one for the Pioneers'
basketball team than for the
football team. In spite of the
fact that the basketball team
had only a mediocre perfor-
mance last year, with a lot of
disappointments and games
lost that should have been
won, this year's team looks
good.

With at least four regulars
back from last year in Greg
”the Bomber" Bombinski,
Greg "Fuzz Cuz" Beckman,
Gorgeous Cary Johnson, and
Bob "Touch" Burnett (when
he gets back from his Semes~
ter Away From Grinnell,
Goofing Off Program next
January), the Hoopsters will
have a strong nucleus of good
boll handlers and big boards
men around which to mold a
fine team. Adding depth to this
nice nucleus of netmen are
such newcomers as Joe
"Kraut" Kraut, at guard, the
Animal Mark Meyer and bon-

yney Bruce Bonnewell at for—

ward positions, and, serving
double duty as a ball man and
board-banger, Winner Wends
ell Taylor. In keepingwith this
upsurge of Grinnell athletic
fortunes, Coach Pfitchhas de-
veloped a new exercise known
as the Grinnell Swing. I'll save

a definition of this facet ofthe
Grinnell Experience for a la‘
ter date.

The basketballseason opened
with a tuneup at Millikin Unis
versity on December 1; then
Grinnell goes to Central on
the 5th. Things begin to get
serious at the Holiday Tourr
nament at Colorado on the
29th. Quite frankly, unless
the Pioneers get upset by their
bitter rivals, Knox, they sh-
ould come away with the chr
amplonship. Grinnell’s league
season opens in the hallowed
confines of Darby Gymnasium
against Cornell on the 9th of
january. Grinnell's firsthome
game after the spring semes-
ter starts, however, is not
until February 5, against St.
Olaf. ’ '

Grinnell is sufficiently im-
proved over last year, with
more depth, strong backcourt
men, and a conceivably t0tally
dominant corps in the fore
court, that the Pioneers should
do quite well against the lear
gue. It is, indeed, within the
realm of possibilitythatGrin~
nell could finish the season on
top of the heap. The players
have a high morale, they're
up for the season, they will
win a large number of games.

--Ra speaks

' December 4, 1970

1970-71 BASK ETBA LL SCHEDULE

Tuesday, Dec. 1 Milliken There
Saturday, Dec. 5 Central There
Tuesday, Dec. 29 Holiday Tournament -
Colorado Coll. Univ. of
Chicago vs. Knox;
Colorado Coll. vs.
Grinnell;
Wednesday, Dec. 30 Losers play
Winners play
Saturday, Jan. 9 Cornell Here
Friday, Jan. 15 Knox Here
Saturday, Jan. 16 Monmouth Here
Friday, Jan. 22 Ripon There
Saturday, jan. 23 Lawrence There
Friday, Jan. 29 Beloit There
Saturday, Jan. 30 Coe There
Friday, Feb. 5 St. Olaf Here
Saturday, Feb. 6 Carleton Here
Saturday, Feb. 13 Cornell There
Friday, Feb. 19 Knox There
Saturday, Feb. 20 Monmouth There
Friday, Feb. 26 Ripon Here
Saturday, Feb. 27 Lawrence Here
Tuesday, March 2 Eeloit Here
Friday, March 5 St. Olaf There
Saturday, March 6 Carleton There
Tuesday, March 9 Coe Here

FRESHMAN BASKETBALL SCHEDULE
Tuesday, Jan. 19 Knox (7:30)
Thursday, Jan. 21 Simpson (7:00)
Monday, Jan. 25 Cornell (7:30)
Saturday, Jan. 30 Coe (5:15)

There

cccccccccggg

Tuesday, Feb. 4
Saturday, Feb. 13
Wednesday, Feb. 17
Saturday, Feb. 20
Tuesday, Feb. 23
Thesday, March 9

.

Central
Cornell
Simpson
Monmouth
Central
Coe

II>I>>>I>I

(7:00)
(5:00)
(7:00)
(5:45)
(7:00)
(5:15)

We qaprociote

TV &

S

3%.... y T
E ,

R

E

O

consideration,
and friendliness.

Have a good
holiday!

See ‘you next
year.

6th & Prince‘

Will

GRINNE LL FREE COLLEGE

ONE DOLLAR good on any
pant or jean purchase

This coupon expires 12/19/7'0

 

Central Iowa’s largest selection of bell bottoms
over 5000 pair to choose from

BELL BOTTOM JEANS

blue denim , fancy - cord

DRESS FLAIRS AND BELLS

wools , lmits - plain - fancy

Also a great selection
of shirts and sweaters

presen

THE lib FT?

Des Moines , 60 minutes from Grinnell

Hours: Mon., 979; Tueerri" 1076; Sat., 9-S:30
Upsmirs 504 1/2 Grand Avenue
Across from the Paramount Theatre

kennel"

mnmtoom

SHOP PENNEYS CATAlOG DEPARTMENT
FOR All YOUR SPECIAL NEEDS

We're "The Friendly Place'i

 

 

SHIPMENT OF
NEW KNITS - Stop in
and see them

this week.

KNllS

ESTY’S
FABRIC STORE

1001 Broad St.

 

Clipiol" (”more chm—as

MATHEWS @AEEER Sliil©lP

932 Main
WE FEATURE HAIRSTYLING

Only a snowmobile could go as

many places as our well-butlt Swede.
SAAB is built to be driven even above the Arctic Circle. (A
good part. of Sweden. where SAAB is built. lies in the Arctic.)

And even it you don‘t have to go through an Ermnnth long winter,
you'll be glad SAAB has front wheel drive. a (mall nit heater and

fantastic cold smiinguhnnymneiac: “SAAB m
is the one car really made for winter driving.
So it you want. a true snowmobile. get a SAAB, “swell-MM

Just West of
Merle Hay Plaza
in Des Moines

lumberts, Inc.

3828 70 Des Moines, Ia. 276-1532

 

 

‘ December £1975)

l970-71 SWIMMING SCHEDULE

Saturday, Dec. 5

Wednesday, jan. 20
Saturday, Jan. 23

Friday, Jan. 29
Saturday, Jan. 30
Saturday, Feb. 6
Friday, Feb. 12
Saturday, Feb. 13
Saturday, Feb. 20
Saturday, Feb. 27
March 5 8t 6
March 19, 20, 21

Pioneer Relays (H)
(Cornell- Coe, U.N.I.)
Monmouth (A)

Grinnell Relays

(Wayne State Augusiana, Coe)
Lawrence (H)

Beloit (H)

Knox (H)

St. Olaf (A)

Carleton (A)

Viking Olympics (A)
Cornell (l-i)

Conference - Cedar Rapids
Small College Nationals

Aqua Jocks In Tune-up

Bulletin: On November 27,
the Grinnell College Aqua
jocks divided and competed.
The outcome was:J. Roilie's
Trees 58, Mike Haley's
Beaks 45.

Winners were: the Beak in
the 160 IM and 100 yard br-
eaststroke, Gabby Ward in
the 60 yard freestyle in which
he was only .4 ofa secondoff
the pool and school record.
Hulk Dale was the pinnacle
performer in the 100 fly
event and Swacko Swa ckham»
mer backed into the hack-

DEC. 10, I1, 12

WOODSTOCK cancels
"Cry of the Banshee" in-
dicated on social mlendar.

 

stroke event. The Tree's
Medley relay was victorious
as Flecky, Gibby, Hulk and
Curls intimidated their op-
ponents. The infamous Dan
Weiss won the 200 and 500
free, but alas was the pri-
mary reason the Tree's 400
free relay won as he false-
started twice. His response
was that it felt good so . . .
The crowd was tremendous
until sitedown started and
then the Tree girls left and
Mrs. Ohermlller remained
aloof and unbiased. Thusly
interpreted, your presence
will be welcome at the swim
meet December fifty at 1:30
p.m. against Coe, Loras,
and the UNI Panthers.

THE SCARLET AND BLACK

PAGE 11

Swimmers Shoot For second-Title

The goal this year for the
swim team is championship
No. 2 in a row. Being last
year's only Grinnell Confer-
ence Team Champion, the
team has to overcome the
same problem this year, the
pool. Practicing in the "big
bathtub" is certainly no plea-
sure, but as Coach Obermil-
lei: puts it, ”You should see
the looks on the other teams'
faces." The team, not quite
the harassing power of last
year, may have an uphill spe
lash in its pursuits.

The aqua jocks are led down
rhe lanes by “Beak" Daley,
'1]. Rollie" Rollins, and head
chearleader, “Crabby" Ward.

Wrestlers

The male diet association of
Grinnell, sometimes Icnownas
the wrestling team, opens its
70- 71 campaign on a more
optimistic note than they ended
last season. The reason ap-
pears to be twofold, exper—
ience and numbers. Coach
"Moe" Hunt is rather enthu-
siastic at the prospects ofthis
season, in that he will have
five grapplers with collegiate
experience on the team. Also
on the roster are many fresh-
men (preps) who have know-

1970-71 WRESTLING SCHEDUL E

Saturday, Dec. 5 Loras
Wednesday, Jan. 20 Knox
Saturday, Jan. 30 Monmouth
Tuesday, Feb. 2 Cornell
Saturday, Feb. 13 -Double Dual
St. OlafCarl

There

Here

Here

There 7:30 p.m.
» Northfield, Minn.
eton

7:00 p.m.

Monmouthe Grinnell

Wednesday, Feb. 17 Simpson
Saturday, Feb. 20
Coe~ Grinnell

-Triple Dual-

There 7:00 p.m.
Cedar Rapids

Iowa Wesleyarr Central

Wednesday, Feb. 24 William Penn

Friday, Feb. 26 Lake Forest
Saturday, Feb. 27 Invitational

Friday, March 5 Conference

Saturday, March 6 "

“wi- umn had yet another
outrage in store. The screams
had not yet died away when he
announced that, yes, he won in
[act going lo supply some nrrns
to South Alrleo, would do so,
he said, because ii was in Eng-
land's long-range inlerese to do
so. England’s

whui?. .

N v, wold

children’s books

‘ Wump World

‘ In the Night Kitchen

' The Little Prince

‘ Charlotte's Web

‘ Sylvester and the Magic Pebble

‘ Pooh's Library

' Velveteen Rabbit
‘ Where the Wild Things Are

‘ Drummer Hoff

‘ Dover Fairy Books

college book store

 

Here
There

7:00 p.m.

There
Mt. Vernon

Other seniors, besides Rol-
line, on the squad, are ”Swa-
cky" Swackhamer, "Hulk"
Dale, and "Alice" Kaufman.
Important underclassmen fro
om last year’s teamare "Sur-
fer" Bramer, "Freak"Free*
burg, and Sheena Brown's lit-
tle brother Bob. Prep power
is supplied by, yes folks, an-
other Williams (Mark), Dan
Weiss, “Bums" Fleckenc
stein, "Pontoon" Huntoon,
and “Curls" Rosenfeld. Th-
ere are many Others but
they're anonymous as all the
preps look the same - weird!

Losses from lastyear‘s team
did hurt the squad in depth,
but not in glitter. It is thought

‘that five seniors graduated.
One sophomore went off to the
promised land, because of his
roommate and his snakes. And
a prep, who was built like a
lumberjack, was enticed to IU
as our pool wasnot bigenough,
and his girlfriend was at IU
(minor point).

This year’s squad will host
the Pioneer Relays, an annual
event next year, on Dec. 5 at
1:30. UNI, Coe, and Loraswill
be there if the pool still is at
that time. Highlights of the
meet will include the invom-
tlon by Gabby, Hulk and his
T- shirt, and Mrs. (bermiller
escorted by Irving Glick.

--Poseldon

Hope To Win A Few

ledge of this sport of refined
mauling.

There are fifteen men on the
lists, Which doubles last
year’s total of eight (almost
doubles7). Really, the fact shr
ould be that it quadrupled,
since Grinnell wouldbe behind
25-0 before the meet started,
as most of Grinnell's oppon-
ents faced only four men, with
the other weight classes being
forfeited. But the gods have
smiled on well liked “Jogger"
Hunt, and he may be able to
fill all positions except the
158 and 177 pound uniforms.
Anyone who weighs in the in—
dicated regions and likes down
to earth associations is we]-
come.

The team is led by co-cap-
mins "Mr. Football”, Wash-
ington Alston and Mrs. Bra
own's son, "Mouse". A re—
tumee after a layoff of a year
in Costa Rica is 01' "Emphy-
sema Steve" Hutchings. A
surprise is that Coach Hunt
has a heavy heavyweight in
Big Barry Huff. A letterman
dominates the lightweights
(118 lbs.) in the form of Ted
Weckel, Loose Hall's pride
and joy.

The prep power is supplied

PREGNAND NEED HELP?

PREGNANT! NEED HELP? Abortions are new legal in New
York City up to 24 weeks. The Abortion Referral Service will
provide it quick and inexpensive end to your pregnancy. We
in r member or the National Organization to legalize
Abortion. CALL i-Zis-snssoo tor totally coniidennni
iniornuzion. There are no shots or pills to termuinte a
pregnancy. These medications are intended to induces late

nod only. A good medical test is your best ist action to
insure your chance for choice. oei n test lmmedintei .our
imam-icy counsellnr servicawili ptovidetotnlly conn ential
niternuiives to your pie nnncy. We have u long ixstat those we

have almd assisted ould

COPY 0L
1-215-878-5800.

on wIsh to Verif
NUMBER F R FUTURE

this service.
EFERENCE

by Dons, Aldrich and Bog-
nanno; Also included is Bob
Donelan. Other far—under-
classmen are "Flower"
Potts, Jack ”Really I'm Aw~
akel" Couch, Charles Farr's
little brother Tom, Robert
Frost, David Rice, and John
Fersell. The only junior on
the squad is George Shybut.
‘ This year's team hopes to
be better than last year's,
which is a safe bet, since
last year's team was 0-14.

~-Haro|d Legg

Five Griddors

All-Conference

Five Grinnell College grid-
ders have been named to the
1970 allrMidwest Conference
football squad.

Mario Bognanno landed a
linebacker spot on the first
defensive team and Jim Pir-
olli, Mark Hamilton, Jim
Edwards, and Washington Al-
ston were selected on‘ the
second team.

Pirolli and Hamilton recei-
ved end and tackle positions,
respectively, on the offensive
unit. Defensive spots went to
Edwards, tackle, and Alston,
linebacker.

The IAIII on 80

REDICHIX OUR SPE CI A LTY

Fried chicken orders to
go. Home style prepared
dinners on Sunday.

Road Service

leo's Standard

236* 71 GU
SIXTH 8t WEST

 

 

RICK RAMSEY

 

717 Fifth 236-3141

Northwestern
Mutual life

‘ 7th largest life Insurance Company in America

‘ Writes Only individual lives - no group contracts

‘ Recognized leader in low net cost insurance

IS INTERESTED IN YOU AS AN INDIVIDUAL!

Before you buy - Check the Difference or

RAMSEY-WEEKS INSURANCE

BILL WEEKS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PAGE 12

THE SCARLET AND BLACK

Cocker, Moodies Disappointing

by Ron Medvin

At the beginning of lastsum~
mer, Joe Cooker got himself
a group numbering about fifty
people and came to the U.S. to
tour the country. They mlled
themselves the Mad Dogs St
Englishmen and they decided
to make a live album at the
Filmore East in New York.
(What group hasn’t made a
live album in 19707) And they
called the album: Joe Cocker
Mad Dogs &Englishmen. Wow.
For Joe'Cocker fans, this al-
bum (actually, a double-
aibum) is a must. For others,
the album has its ups and
downs.

One “up" is that Leon Rus-
sell and Chris Stainton are
featured throughout the album.
Other than being a great gui-
tarist, Russell writes much of
Cocker’s material, such as
”Delta lady" and "Give
Peace a Chance." These two
songs are among the best in
the album. “Cry Mea River",
"Space Captain", “The Lets
ter", and “She Came in Thr»

ough the Bathroom Window"
also show Cooker singing at
his powerful best. Cocker pro-
bably has the most powerful
and dynamic voice in rock to-
day. (His rasping interpretat-
ion of ”Little Help From My
Friends"~- not on this album
--is no doubt his best song
and is the one that made him
a star in the U.S.)

The rest of this album, how-
ever, does not come across,
and if you expect to be over-
whelmed, you will be disap~
pointed. Too many ofthe songs
sound the same, and Cocker
fails to put forth his best. He
is better live than in a studio,
but he just does not make it
through the entire four sides
of this record. In fact, this
album could be great if they
had left out sides two and
three. One and four are 100%
Cocker. A suggestion would
be to see the movie that was
made of this tour, and if you
like it, then get the album.
Otherwise, borrow sides one
and four from a friend.

The Moody Blues is one of
the few groups that seems to

Weekend Music Performances

The chorus and Collegium
Musicum will present their
Christmas Concert in Herrick
Chapel tonight at 8:00 p.m.
The choir, under the direction
of James Fudge, will doapro-
cessional and recessional of
Medieval English carols, and
will be joinedbythe Collegium
under Jeremy Montagu in sin-
gle pieces by Marenzio, Jos-
quin du Pres, Billings, and
Jammerschmidt. The
concert will close with the

full choir singing a work by
.l.S. Bach.

Speaks

by Mary Pfistsr
and Marty Sachs

Last week the director of
placement for the American
Educational Theatre Associa-
tion (AETA), Barbara Ridout,
visited with Grinnell students
interested in studying and
working in ‘the theatre during
the summer vacations or af-
ter graduation.

At an early meeting with the
theatre majors Ridout ans-
wered general questionsabout
theatre opportunities for stud-

There will be a Francesco
Trio concert Saturday nightat
8:00 p.m. in Roberts Theater
featuring the vocal duet of
Mrs. Russ Jones and James
Fudge, accompanied by the
Trio in several works by Beet-
hoven.

The last musical event of
the semester will be a per-
formance at the Forum Ch—
ristmas Party Saturday night
at 10:15 by the Francesco
Trio, the vocal duet, and the
choir.

get worse withage. Their first
real album, In Search of the
Lost Chord was great. Their
new album. A Question ofBal-
ance. is not great. It is notev-
en very good. In fact . . .

Ever since Lost Chord, the
Moodies have been into
"heavy" lyrics and “super-
group" music. In Question...
they are so phony as to make
even Moody Blues' fans sick.
How about: “I've been search»
ing for my dream/ A hundred

times today/ Ibuild them up,

you knock them down./ Like'

they were made of Clay."
Greatl There’s a lot more of
that, but you get the idea.

But ah] the Moodies’ music.
The mystics of the melletronl
The music on this album is so
boring that even the most die-
hard Moody Blues fan will want
to sell the album for half-
price. (Anyone care to buy
mine?)

It's not fair to not mention
the good moments of the al-
bum. There are three. Justin
Hayward has written three
songs on the album, including
the title song, “Question"
Both his music and his lyrics
are worth listening to: he
seems to be the only talented
writer in the group. In fact,
he has written all the Mood-
ies' great songs. “Tuesday
Afternoon", ”Nights in White
Satin" being two examples.
However, this album is not
worth buying; better you sh-
ould buy their older and bet-
ter stuffl On the picture in-
side the cover, the Moody
Blues look troubles. They she
ould. They ought to know by
now that they should let Hay-
ward write their music, then
maybe they would smile.

On Drama Careers

ents, how toapply for positions
in theatres, and the availabil‘
ity of permanent jobs in thea-
tre. She talked about AETA
which is an association which
tries to give help to those in-
terested in eduu-itlonaltheatre
bv distributing general and
specific information about th-
eatres. As for job opportuni-
ties, the outlook is not opti-
mistic for actors or directors
but she held out more hope
for technical personnel who
are males. Theatre does have
its prejudices.

BARBARA RIDOUT, speaking to students considering
theater careers, was pessimistic about job opportuni-

ties in acting and directing.

(Photo by Marty Sachs)

One important question pis-
ced to her by Don Boros ofthe
Theatre Department waswhe—
ther a student should become
a theatre major if he or she
was uncertain about being
totally committed to it. Be
cause dedication to the pros
fession and a professional at-
titude are a must, she said
that she would not recommend
it as a major but endorsed the
idea of students being invol-
ved in productions, even ifthey

'are not tneatre majors.

At the general meeting, open
to the public, Barbara Ridout
answered, again, the quest-
ions about acting opportunit-
ies and tried to answer some
questions about Actors’ Equ-
ity. She seemed to be of the
opinion that as young actors,
students should postpone get-
ting Equity cards until they
have more experience because
joining Equity does not as‘
sure people of jobs and may,
in fact, hinder them.

In general, she gave the stu-
dents the true picture ofopene
ings in professional theatre
as a career. Anyone interest-
ed in information about AETA
summer theatres should con-
tact Jim Reeder, Rosemarie
Bank, or Don Boros of the
Theatre Department.

After getting over the facts
about future acting opportun-
ities, the Acting and Direct»
ing Class will still be having
their readings tonightandSat-
urday at 8 p.m. in the Arena.
And next week they shall val-
iantly perform their manyand
varied scenes for those not
studying for their finals on
Wednesday and Thursday ev-
enings at 8 p.m. in the Hallie
Flanagan Davis Theatre
(Arena).

MISSISSIPPI

December 4, 1970

FRED McDowell, an Old’tlme blues

singer, played to enthusiastic overflow crowds in the
South Lounge of the forum Saturday, November 29.

(Photo by John Pepper)

Laughing Jag Told

(continued from page 9)

of administrative light, Ric
McDowell appeared, wiping
the sleep from his eyes, and
screaming invectives to the
crowd. Finally placated by
Dave’s assurances that the
culprits had disappeared, Ric
(the omniscient)explained that
the source of the disturbance
had to be Herrick Chapel. The
B&G man led the officer, Ric,
and the crowd (Mannheimer
cursing all the while) through
the main doors of the chapel.
After a frantic search for the
tape recorder, and a decision
that it could not be in the locked
room, McDowell, in his infin-
ite wisdom, flicked the master
switch which was contained in
casing of the organ. (the fore-
skin7).

Tim’s sweet voice, after 40
minutes of laughing,faded into
the snowy evening. The crowd
gave its harness bellsa shake,
to ask if there was somemis-
take . . . for indeed the laughs
ter had subsided. HE WHO
LAUGHS LAST, LAUGHS
BEST . .. It's 7:00 A.M. . . .
We’re still laughing . . .

respectfully submitted
november 23, 1970
David Landecker
Robert Frost

Faul Appleby

Chris Decker is solicit-
ing contributions for a lits
erary supplement to be
published Friday, Decemr
ber ll. Deadline is Sunday,
December 6. Flaceallcon-
tributions in his mailbox.

Experimental College Advances

(continued from page 9)

The Revolutionary Forces
dissolved into small hands and
slipped away into the jungle
after the meeting. They were
last seen discussing personal
ideas and plans with great en‘
thusiasm. It is believed that
another offensive is soon to
be launched. Popular support
for the insurgents seems to
be mounting and the Grinnell
Experience is preparingitseif
for another onslaught. Com~
rades Scheff and Brandmill
made an impassioned appeal
for volunteers to aid the lib-
eration forces. They are con*
fident of victory and claim to
have had Visions of lights at
the ends of dark tunnels.

In all seriousness, though,

the idea of the Experimen-
tal College is motivationally
realistic and looks like it is
going to work. It might be a
good idea to hop on the boat
and lend a hand in picking
subject matter for the cour-
ses, since only a limited num*
her will be tried at first. In
order to get some decent top~
ics, people should get in while
they‘re still planning.

As a special favor, Henry
and Toni have agreed not to
bite people who call them to
ask what they are doing.

FULL LENGTH
MINK COAT

good condition

5100 236-7077

 

to
X

albumin
$336 _‘ 323;“

BATES pianist

Phone 236-3197

.92; Brood

 

 

 

